Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
It was hot and muddy, and there wasn’t enough to eat or drink.
That, at least, is the way Jay Schreiber, a former deputy sports editor for The New York Times, remembered the Woodstock music festival in 1969.
While he was there, the Mets, the humorously bad National League team that had curiously started to play better that summer, had a doubleheader scheduled against the San Diego Padres in Flushing, Queens.
“I can be home in two hours,” Mr. Schreiber, then 19, remembered thinking. So he left.
He watched the Mets win four games in a row over two days. Improbably, they would go on to win the World Series in a season that he and countless other Mets fans still reminisce about 50 years later.
A 20-page special section in Thursday’s paper celebrates the anniversary of the championship that earned the team its nickname: the “Miracle Mets.” Mr. Schreiber, who is 68 and semiretired, edited the section and hopes younger fans will appreciate the uncanniness of the season. For those who were there, it is a chance to revisit the magical, mystical year.
“‘How did that happen?’ is still the prevailing sentiment,” Mr. Schreiber said.
The section is built around the narrative arc of the team from its inception in 1962, and chronicles its evolution from bumbling incompetence to unlikely success. It includes excerpts from contemporaneous Times articles, as well as new columns by baseball writers of the era, including Robert Lipsyte, who covered the Mets for The Times, and George Vecsey, who wrote about the Mets for The Times and Newsday. Wayne Kamidoi and Fred Bierman were the art directors for the project.
“We sort of created a Mets yearbook,” Mr. Kamidoi said, referring to the magazine-like collections that once were released annually for individual teams.
“That was a big thing before the internet,” he said. “Fans would religiously buy the official team yearbook, with stories about the past, stories about this year’s team.” (Mr. Kamidoi had his own collection of Detroit Tigers yearbooks.)
But the project is really undergirded by Mr. Schreiber’s own relationship with the Mets, whom he started rooting for in 1962, when he was 12. (His often frustrated devotion to the team was so well known that when he retired from The Times in 2017, the Sports Department arranged for the team’s mascot, Mr. Met, to attend his going-away party.)
In Flushing, where Mr. Schreiber grew up, most people had come from Brooklyn, which meant they were Dodgers fans. When the Dodgers decamped for Los Angeles in 1957, their fans were left without a team. (For many, adopting the Yankees wasn’t a viable option.)
As a child, Mr. Schreiber initially embraced the Yankees. They were the best team in baseball at the time, and their roster was riddled with famous players — Yogi Berra, Mickey Mantle, Whitey Ford. So during the Mets’ first season in 1962, Mr. Schreiber split his loyalties.
But by the end of that first year, he chose the Mets — probably because it aligned him with his father, he said.
The Mets were terrible — they lost a modern-era-record 120 games in their first season — but their antics became the stuff of legend. In 1963, Jimmy Piersall ran around the bases backward after hitting the 100th home run of his career. That same season, pitcher Roger Craig tried wearing No. 13 to break an 18-game losing streak. (It worked.)
“It was kind of rebellious to root for the worst team ever,” Mr. Schreiber recalled.
By the summer of 1969, the team’s luck had turned. That fall, as the Mets battled to win their division, Mr. Schreiber and his friends piled into his car in Buffalo, where he was attending college, so they could get out-of-town broadcasts on the radio — including one Friday-night doubleheader that the Mets swept with identical 1-0 scores. During the World Series, Mr. Schreiber and his classmates crowded into the student union to watch the games on 20-inch televisions. The Mets won the Series in five games.
For today’s sports fans, there are countless ways to relive a team’s big win including articles, commentary and replays.
After the Mets won the 1969 World Series, Mr. Schreiber wanted to read everything about the win, but he didn’t have access to all the New York City papers in Buffalo. “I really wanted to savor what we had done, but I couldn’t,” he said.
For him, this project was a chance to return to that era and savor the victory — and to bask in the joy we experience when our heroes pull off the preposterous.
