PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Wilson Ramos, the Mets’ new catcher, drove his black Lexus LX 570 into the parking lot at the team’s spring training facility shortly after 8 a.m. last Friday. A sign with his No. 40 uniform number was affixed to the chain-link fence by his space, but there were no digits or letters on his front license plate, only an illustration. It featured a pair of neon green horns atop a catcher’s mask. Ramos is, after all, known as The Buffalo.
And once he was on the field, Ramos, 31, tried to live up to his nickname. He charged after balls. After one coach shouted, “Arriba!”, Ramos responded by squatting behind the plate in the bullpen area to absorb balls thrown on a short hop into his chest. He then rehearsed a rundown play on the third-base line and caught balls smaller than a baseball with his bare left hand for coordination practice.
“I feel 100 percent,” he said. “I just want to keep my routine.”
Ramos, a two-time All-Star who has twice torn the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee (2012 and 2016), maintains that he is now fully healthy after consecutive seasons of missing extensive time because of injuries.
After batting .306 with 15 home runs and 70 R.B.I. in 111 games split between the Tampa Bay Rays and Philadelphia Phillies last season, he signed a two-year deal worth $19 million with the Mets. On a team built around star pitchers like Jacob deGrom, the 2018 National League Cy Young Award winner, and Noah Syndergaard, Ramos, who stands 6 feet 1 inch and weighs in at 260 pounds, believes he is ready for everything about to be thrown at him.
“To come catch the pitchers that we have, that’s got to be a fun job,” Manager Mickey Callaway said.
Management was intent on adding depth in the off-season, and the team now has plenty of it behind the plate. As Ramos did his drills, so did three other catchers.
Travis d’Arnaud, back on the field after undergoing Tommy John surgery on a torn ulnar collateral ligament and missing all but four games last season, pounced on bunts. Tomas Nido, who was called up from the Class AA Binghamton Rumble Ponies when d’Arnaud was hurt, made throws down to second. Devin Mesoraco, who was acquired in the trade that sent pitcher Matt Harvey to Cincinnati last May, caught bullpen sessions. Callaway wouldn’t rule out keeping at least three of the four catchers on the 25-man regular-season roster.
“If that’s our best team, we won’t be afraid to do it,” he said.
D’Arnaud ranked as Ramos’s main backup when camp opened late last week. Though d’Arnaud is potentially capable of playing first base or in the outfield, Callaway made it clear that, for now, he is being limited to catching as part of his rehabilitation. At some point, he said, that calculation may change.
Actually, the Mets view value at the catcher’s spot through a number of prisms. Mesoraco hit just .222 for the Mets last season with 10 home runs and 30 R.B.I. When asked why the Mets decided to bring him back — he signed a minor-league contract with the team earlier this month — Callaway was clear.
“Jacob deGrom,” he said.
And then he smiled, which he certainly had reason to. Mesoraco, who is 30, caught 21 of deGrom’s 25 starts in 2018 after they became teammates and Callaway complimented him as a “thoughtful, wonderful” battery mate who helped deGrom excel.
“He made us a better team last year,” Callaway said of Mesoraco. “He was prepared every single day. That rubbed off on all of our catchers. That rubbed off on our pitchers. They trusted him because of those things, and he’s a leader. It showed behind the plate. He caught the majority of a Cy Young season. He wanted to come back here and we wanted him.’’
Ramos, who has caught three no hitters in his career, including one at Citi Field in 2015 with Washington’s Max Scherzer on the mound, started studying his new pitchers once he signed with the Mets. he has a small book on each of them, and has picked d’Arnaud’s brain, as well.
In the bullpen last Friday, Ramos exchanged a fist bump with starter Steven Matz following their session together and spoke Spanish with right-handed reliever Jeurys Familia, who is moving from closer to setup man.
“We have to know each other,” Ramos said. “We have to support each other.”
On the field, first-base coach Glenn Sherlock was keeping an eye on Ramos and Co. When the catchers chased after bunts, he encouraged them to stay under control. In between drills, he repeated a few questions that are expected to echo throughout the season.
“Everybody O.K.?” he said. “Legs good?” The Mets hope the answer remains a unanimous yes, whether it’s from two catchers, or even three.
