The police and Major League Baseball said Friday they were each investigating a video that appeared to show the chief executive of the San Francisco Giants in an altercation with his wife.
The video clip, which was posted by TMZ Sports, provided no context for what led up to the episode on Friday in San Francisco involving the executive, Larry Baer, and his wife, Pam.
In the video, the Baers were in what appeared to be a public plaza and Ms. Baer was seated in a chair. Mr. Baer, who was wearing a suit, stood over his wife and suddenly lunged for something in her hand, the video showed. The clip appeared to show him forcefully grabbing at her hand or arm. A struggle ensued, causing her to lose her balance in the chair, falling on her back and screaming, “Oh my God!”
A second clip appeared to show the aftermath of the episode and Mr. Baer, carrying a coffee cup and walking away, saying, “Stop, Pam, stop.”
In a statement issued by the team on behalf of the Baers, the couple said: “Regrettably today we had a heated argument in public over a family matter. We are deeply embarrassed by the situation and have resolved the issue.”
Later Friday, Mr. Baer issued another statement, saying: “I am truly sorry for the pain that I have brought to my wife, children and to the organization. It is not reflective of the kind of a person that I aspire to be, but it happened and I will do whatever it takes to make sure that I never behave in such an inappropriate manner again.”
Pam Baer said in another statement on Friday night that she had taken Mr. Baer’s cellphone, that he wanted it back from her and that she did not want to give it back.
“I started to get up and the chair I was sitting in began to tip,” she said in the statement. “Due to an injury I sustained in my foot three days ago, I lost my balance. I did not sustain any injury based on what happened today. Larry and I always have been and still are happily married.”
A spokesman for the San Francisco Police Department, Officer Joseph Tomlinson, said the department was aware of the episode and was investigating. He declined to comment further.
In a statement, Major League Baseball also said it was aware, “and, just like any other situation like this, will immediately begin to gather the facts.”
It said it would have no further comment until that process was completed.
The San Francisco Chronicle reported that the footage was shot by witnesses who said they heard the couple arguing before things escalated.
Mr. Baer joined the Giants as the club’s marketing director in 1980, left the team to attend Harvard Business School and then served in positions at Westinghouse Broadcasting and CBS, according to a biography.
He returned to the team as a limited partner of the Giants’ ownership group, and was named chief operating officer in May 1996, president in October 2008 and chief executive in January 2012.
