TAMPA, Fla. — Exactly why the superstar free agents Manny Machado and Bryce Harper have remained unsigned deep into February has been the topic of bitter debate among players, fans and front offices this winter.
But one of the primary reasons that neither is currently in a Yankees uniform was hard to miss as position players reported to camp on Monday: Giancarlo Stanton, the 6-foot-6, 245-pound slugger entering his second season in New York healthier and with higher expectations.
More than a year ago, the Yankees pulled off a blockbuster trade for Stanton, the 2017 National League most valuable player, taking on what remained of his 13-year $325 million contract. In his first season in the Bronx, Stanton hit .266 with 38 home runs, 100 R.B.I. and 211 strikeouts, posting an .852 on-base-plus-slugging percentage which, when adjusted for the league and ballparks, was 26 percent better than the league average.
Strong numbers, but still a noticeable drop-off from the standard he set in 2017, when he hit 59 home runs, and not quite enough to please Yankee fans who booed him when he struck out five times in the home opener and went 4 for 18 in an American League division series loss to the Boston Red Sox — the defending champions whom the Yankees find themselves chasing again.
In trying to surpass the division rival Red Sox, the Yankees spent $140 million in free agency this off-season, including re-signing outfielder Brett Gardner and pitchers C.C. Sabathia and Zack Britton. And while General Manager Brian Cashman has not ruled out tweaking the roster further, the Yankees appear mostly complete for now — forgoing a huge-splash signing like Machado or Harper.
The hefty checks being paid out to Stanton have something to do with that, but the Yankees also believe better health, for players such as outfielder Aaron Judge and catcher Gary Sanchez, will lead to improvements. And, as the Yankees’ principal owner, Hal Steinbrenner, said, the team was not concerned about adding more partly because they were bullish that Stanton would be more productive when facing American League pitchers he saw for the first time last season.
“I’m not against long-term deals,” Steinbrenner said in a Yankees-produced video posted on Sunday. “Clearly there’s always concerns about the ending years of those long-term deals. But what I try to do every off-season is try to figure out where our biggest area of need is, and this year it was not an infielder or outfielder. It was pitching, and that’s what we immediately addressed.”
“An infielder or outfielder” was a clear reference to Machado, whom the Yankees met with during the off-season, and Harper.
Stanton, 29, is only three years older than both Machado and Harper, still squarely in his prime years with nine seasons left on his contract plus a club option for the 2028 season. He attributed his drop-off in production last season, in part, to playing against new opponents and some injury problems.
Bothered by left hamstring tightness in the second half, Stanton admitted on Monday that he was not fully healthy until late in the year, though he insisted on playing every day.
“That wasn’t the best for me, my hamstring,” he said, adding later, “If I could go out and produce or help the slightest bit, I was going to be out there.”
Yankees Manager Aaron Boone commended Stanton’s professionalism and reliability during a season of change. From May 29 to Sept. 1, Stanton started 85 straight games, often as a designated hitter, and he played 158 games total — the most of any Yankee.
“That’s one of those things that we kind of loved about him: his ability to post when he wasn’t perfect,” Boone said. As for Stanton’s familiarity with the league, Boone said the Yankees had examined Stanton’s performances and found that he hit better against pitchers he had seen before.
Beyond adjusting to pitchers, Stanton said his biggest challenge last season was learning to play in games that mattered “past May 7” — a dig at his previous team, the Miami Marlins, who did not have a winning season during Stanton’s eight years there. (Coincidentally, Stanton performed above his season averages after May 7 last year: .276 with a .875 O.P.S. and 31 home runs.)
“Everything is more comfortable in that aspect, in terms of facing some of these guys and teams again and more often,” he said.
At some point, the protracted dance between Machado, Harper and the interested teams will end — perhaps with one of the players agreeing to a deal that will top Stanton’s record-breaking contract, which he signed before the 2015 season. Whatever happens, in a free-agent market increasingly dictated by teams looking to manage expenses despite increasing revenues, it will most likely not quiet the growing concerns about relations between players and management.
For his part, Stanton said he would be happy if Harper or Machado topped his historic contract. Mostly, he said, he just hoped they signed with a team soon, saying this slow off-season was “nothing like what I’ve seen since I’ve played.”
Asked if he felt fortunate to have signed his contract when he did given the current state of baseball, Stanton did not hesitate.
“Yeah, big time,” he said.
INSIDE PITCH
Dellin Betances, one of the Yankees’ star relief pitchers, reported to spring training on Monday, a week late because of the birth of his son. Betances, who will be a free agent after this season, said that his agent and the Yankees had talked about a contract extension but declined to elaborate.
