It was a week with a crushing streak of news, so we’ll break it down into manageable parts.
1. In Washington:
President Trump’s former lawyer and personal fixer, above, painted a damning picture of life inside the president’s inner circle.
While Democrats are not likely to immediately pursue impeachment, Michael Cohen’s statements may open a new phase of political turbulence for Mr. Trump heading into the 2020 election.
Here are five takeaways from Mr. Cohen’s testimony.
We also reported that Mr. Trump ordered in May that Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, be given a top-secret security clearance, overruling officials’ concerns. House Democrats are demanding more information about the matter.
Congress was busy elsewhere on Capitol Hill: The House passed two major gun control bills after two decades of inaction. And Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, was confirmed to be the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.
____
2. On the international front:
Talks between President Trump and the North Korean leader to rid the Korean Peninsula of nuclear weapons abruptly collapsed, with both Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un walking away empty-handed. Above, the leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, this week.
Our reporters look at how the summit failed after two years of threats, hubris and misjudgment on both sides. Experts think North Korea may take this as an opportunity to continue building out its nuclear arsenal, and tensions are likely to resume.
In Afghanistan, American negotiators and Taliban officials are getting closer to an agreement to end the nearly 18-year war in Afghanistan.
____
3. President Trump may have a surprising new ally along the southern border — the Mexican government.
Mexican authorities are blocking groups of migrants at border towns and aiding tough asylum policies, carrying out the Trump administration’s immigration agenda across widespread stretches of the border. Above, migrants seeking asylum in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, in January.
But Mr. Trump’s agenda is facing growing pushback in the U.S. from Congress: The House voted this week to block the president’s declaration of national emergency to fund his border wall; the Senate is expected to take up the bill in mid-March. And Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, is scheduled to testify before Congress on Wednesday about the administration’s border security policies.
To read more stories about life on the ground at the U.S.-Mexico border, sign up for our limited-run newsletter, Crossing the Border.
____
4. We also looked at two growing leadership scandals abroad.
In Israel, the attorney general said he plans to indict Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on bribery and other corruption charges. The announcement came just 40 days before Mr. Netanyahu is to stand for re-election. If the case proceeds, Mr. Netanyahu, pictured above this week, would be the first sitting prime minister to be indicted.
Between the corruption charges and a stiff electoral challenge, Israelis are pondering what a post-Netanyahu Israel would look like.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada is also embroiled in scandal. He and his aides are accused of pressuring a former minister to drop a criminal inquiry, with elections just seven months away.
____
5. A recent Florida massage parlor sting exposed a secretive underworld of human trafficking: A $3 billion-a-year industry where many mostly foreign women work as prostitutes to pay debts to smugglers, spa owners and lawyers.
A spa in Jupiter, Fla., caught the attention of the nation when a sweep led to the arrest of Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots. Law enforcement officials said there were an estimated 9,000 illicit massage parlors across the country, from Orlando to Los Angeles. Above, a spa in Hobe Sound, Fla., was shut down after an investigation into prostitution and human trafficking.
____
6. SpaceX and NASA launched the Crew Dragon capsule to the International Space Station — the first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the shuttle was retired in 2011.
The capsule carried no crew, but the success sets up a near future with astronauts traveling to orbit from the United States again, possibly as soon as the end of the year. NASA astronauts have flown to the International Space Station aboard a Russian spacecraft for the past eight years.
In other space news, the universe appears to be expanding faster than expected. To explain why, astrophysicists may have to rewrite the history of the cosmos.
____
7. Michael Jackson died deep in debt. Now his estate is worth billions. Will a new film about two men’s accounts of sexual abuse damage his posthumous career?
The documentary “Leaving Neverland” airs in two parts on HBO tonight and tomorrow. Above, Mr. Jackson and one of his accusers, Wade Robson, in 1990.
Mr. Jackson’s estate has already begun its war on “Leaving Neverland” and is seeking $100 million in damages from HBO.
“There has always been this shadow or cloud about Michael,” said a former financial adviser to Mr. Jackson, who died nearly 10 years ago. “With this documentary about to be shown to millions and millions of people, and all the notoriety that it’s now getting, I think it will have a detrimental effect to the legacy and the estate.”
____
8. $330 million.
Bryce Harper’s 13-year deal with the Philadelphia Phillies is the richest in baseball history. At 26 years old, and given the length of the contract, Harper has more or less bound himself to the team for the remainder of his career — and a sports culture all its own, our baseball columnist writes. Mr. Harper, above in September, was last with the Washington Nationals.
Stars like Harper aside, baseball players are struggling to get the contracts they want. Is there something they can learn from basketball players?
“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” one historian said. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”
____
9. Everyone knows off-season is the cheapest time to travel, but who wants lousy weather?
Our Frugal Traveler column compiled a month-to-month guide on when and where to book to save money. Part of it is finding soft periods in times of higher demand, so there are fewer people but not terrible weather.
Bali in March, Alaska in April, Disneyland in May, and Aspen in June are just a few destinations to spark your wanderlust.
____
10. Finally, don’t miss our best Weekend Reads.
We talked to young people who grew up in a Britain shaped by austerity, Michael J. Fox about acting with Parkinson’s, and a longtime fan on having a first impression of “Fiddler on the Roof,” above in New York City.
For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these 11 new books our editors like, a glance at the latest TV recommendations, and our music critics’ latest playlist.
Have an easy week.
____
Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
