FRONT PAGE
An article on Tuesday about the government shutdown’s impact on the Department of Housing and Urban Development and nonprofit groups dedicated to helping low-income renters misidentified the location of an apartment complex. It is in Newport, Ark., not Newton, Ark.
INTERNATIONAL
An article on Jan. 9 about the possibility of a “no-deal” Brexit quoted Martin Thornton, who was described as a driver for the Eddie Stobart trucking company. The company has since said it did not have a driver with that name. The Times was unable to confirm Mr. Thornton’s employment information and has removed his comments from the digital version of the article.
NATIONAL
An article Thursday about the confirmation hearing for Andrew Wheeler, President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, misstated Molly Rauch’s position with Moms Clean Air Force. She is public health policy director for the group, not a volunteer.
BUSINESS
An article on Tuesday about the complexities of airlines’ frequent-flier perks misstated the medallion status that Delta Air Lines passengers achieve by flying 25,000 qualifying miles. It is silver, not platinum.
SCIENCE TIMES
An article on Tuesday about the navigational strategies of ants misstated the surname of a researcher. He is Ryan W. Draft, not Dash.
DINING
A recipe last Wednesday for Sumac-Scented Eggplant and Chickpeas omitted the addition of the eggplant. After being browned in a skillet and cooled on a baking sheet, the eggplant should be stirred back into the tomato mixture, in Step 3, with the chickpeas, scallions, mint and water, and simmered.
EDITORIAL
An Op-Ed on Monday about Bill James misstated the name of a research organization. It is the Society of American Baseball Research, not the Society of Advanced Baseball Research.
OBITUARIES
An obituary on Thursday about John C. Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies, misstated both the original name and the current name of the fund he established shortly after founding Vanguard. It was originally called the First Index Investment Trust, not the Vanguard Index Trust (that was a later name); and it is now known as the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, not the Index 500 Fund. The obituary also omitted part of the name of the heart condition for which Mr. Bogle had been treated for more than 30 years. It is arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, not right ventricular dysplasia.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).
Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
