FRONT PAGE
An article on Sunday about experimental therapies for sickle-cell disease misidentified a patient who received treatment. He is Manny Johnson, not Manny Hernandez. The article also misstated his age. He is 21, not 20. Because of an editing error, the article also described incorrectly the trial conducted by Bluebird Bio. The researchers are attempting to restore a functional adult hemoglobin gene, not to restart a fetal hemoglobin gene.
INTERNATIONAL
A picture with The White House Memo article on Wednesday was published in error. The photograph, supplied by The Associated Press, showed a man The A.P. was unable to identify; it did not show Archer Blood.
•
An article on Tuesday about the police reaction to “Yellow Vest” protesters in France referred incorrectly to police use of rubber balls against demonstrators in Western Europe. It is authorized in France, Northern Ireland and Spain. It is not the case that only France and Northern Ireland use such tools.
•
An article on Wednesday about ways that Bitcoin could help Iran undermine sanctions misstated the name of the Chinese computers used to mine Bitcoin at the site visited in the Iranian desert. They are Antminer V9s, not A9Antminers.
SPORTS
The Sports of The Times column on Wednesday about Bryce Harper and Manny Machado misstated the number of teams in Major League Baseball. There are 30, not 32.
THURSDAY STYLES
An article on the cover about the history of fur misstates the price of fur storage at Saks Fifth Avenue in Chicago. It is $175 per year, not $70. The article also misstates the temperature of the storage unit. It is 55 degrees Fahrenheit, with 50 percent humidity, not between 48 and 52 degrees Fahrenheit, with 30 percent humidity.
OBITUARIES
An obituary on Tuesday about the New York City labor leader Stanley Hill misidentified the high school where he played basketball. It was the High School of Commerce, not Central Commercial High School.
•
A picture caption with an obituary on Monday about Charles Kettles, who as an Army helicopter commander in the Vietnam War led a rescue operation that saved the lives of dozens of troops, misidentified the craft in which he was shown. It is an Army L-19 aircraft, not a helicopter.
•
An obituary on Tuesday about Peter Magowan, the longtime owner of the San Francisco Giants, using information from his wife, misstated the surnames of his daughters Kimberley, Margot and Hilary. They all use the surname Magowan.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).
Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
