What Was Said
“This might be the first time someone convicted of lying to Congress has appeared again so quickly in front of Congress.”
— Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio
This carefully worded statement is true, but could give a misleading impression. There is little precedent for someone convicted of the specific crime of lying to Congress to again appear before Congress shortly afterward. But people who were found to have lied to Congress have returned before the body to testify, and lawmakers occasionally hear from convicted criminals.
Very few people — six from the 1940s to the 2000s, according to one estimate — have been convicted of lying to Congress. Others were indicted but acquitted (for example, Roger Clemens, the baseball pitcher) or received presidential pardons (like officials in the Reagan administration involved in the Iran-contra affair).
Among this small group, at least two have testified to Congress after being charged. Elliott Abrams, the former assistant secretary of state under President Ronald Reagan and current envoy to Venezuela under President Trump, pleaded guilty in 1991 to withholding information from Congress, but testified to Congress this month. Robert McFarlane, Mr. Reagan’s national security adviser, also pleaded guilty in 1988 to withholding information from Congress but testified before the Senate in 2002. Both men were pardoned by President George Bush.
Other people who committed crimes other than lying to Congress and have testified before the body include Frank Costello, the mafia boss, in 1951; Joseph Michael Valachi, a mobster, in 1963; and Frank Abagnale, the former con artist and subject of Steven Spielberg’s “Catch Me If You Can,” in 2017.
What Was Said
“Remember how all this started. The Clinton campaign hired Perkins Coie law firm, who hired Glenn Simpson, who hired a foreigner, Christopher Steele, who put together the fake dossier the F.B.I. used to get a warrant to spy on the Trump campaign.”
— Mr. Jordan
Mr. Jordan echoed a falsehood often repeated by Mr. Trump himself: that the investigation into his campaign’s possible links with Russian election interference was prompted by a salacious dossier compiled by Christopher Steele, a former British spy.
In fact, the investigation began in July 2016, as The New York Times has reported and Republicans who held the majority vote last year on the House Intelligence Committee have concluded. George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Trump, told an Australian diplomat in May 2016 that the Russians had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. Australian officials then alerted their American counterparts.
The information provided by Mr. Steele did not reach F.B.I. officials who were investigating Mr. Trump’s campaign until mid-September 2016, The New York Times reported in May.
What Was Said
“How about Mr. Papadopoulos pled guilty, Mr. Manafort convicted, pled guilty to two other charges. Mr. Gates pled guilty, Mr. Flynn pled guilty, Mr. Pinedo pled guilty, Mr. van der Zwaan pled guilty, Mr. Kilimnik indicted on a charge of obstruction of justice, and for two years, you want to talk about an agenda, my friends on the other side of the aisle refuse to bring any of these people up before the committee.”
— Representative Stephen F. Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts
Mr. Lynch is correct that none of the Trump associates he listed — Paul Manafort, Rick Gates, Michael T. Flynn, among them — had publicly testified before the House Oversight and Reform Committee when it was under Republican control, but one did appear before the committee in a closed-door session. Mr. Papadopoulos gave private testimony to the House Oversight and Reform Committee as well as the House Judiciary Committee in October.
Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com.
