MONDAY PUZZLE — O.K., fine. This one was kind of cool.
I’m usually not a fan of this theme schtick, but I will give it a pass for two reasons. The first is that I felt it was overdone a while back, but enough time has elapsed since this type of theme came up. The second reason is that anytime a constructor — in this case, Andrew Kingsley — puts their own special spin on a theme, I feel it’s worth a closer look.
This is the first time this particular twist on a theme has run in The New York Times, so let’s get to looking.
8A: My eyes stopped reading after “Maze runner,” in the clue “Maze runner in an experiment,” so I confidently plunked in THESEUS, but that obviously wasn’t right. And I couldn’t remember the name of the lead in the “Maze Runner” series of books and films, which turned out to be a good thing, because the answer was LAB RAT.
24A: I’m not sure I’d call Garfield a PET CAT, even if he is technically owned by character Jon Arbuckle. It’s kind of an odd phrase; it would be as if my kids called me “Parent Mom.”
29A: “Opening number?” is ONE because that’s the number you open with when you start counting. Math majors, have at it.
5D: “Do stuff?” was my favorite clue in the whole puzzle, because of the sly misdirection. You can “do stuff,” or you can use stuff on your ‘do: the answer is hair product GEL.
47D: TIL about ELSTON Howard, the baseball legend who was the first African-American to play for the Yankees.
If you have been solving for awhile, you’ve seen vowel-run themes — usually early in the week — in which certain words in phrases are put in “vowel order” (A, E, I, O, U). For example, the theme entries in Mr. Kingsley’s puzzle constitute a short vowel-sound run where all the first words begin with the letter P:
PAT RILEY
PET CAT
PIT BOSS
POTHOLES
PUT OUT
And that’s it, right? How much more theme material can you fit into a 15 x 15 grid?
A lot more, it turns out. Doesn’t it seem odd to you that the theme entries are all on the left-hand side of the puzzle, at least based on what you know about grid symmetry? There has to be a reason for that, and it’s not that someone tilted the grid on the way to the printer.
This is the first time a double vowel run has been published in The New York Times Crossword. If you don’t believe me, slide your eye balls across the grid to the right-hand side. On the same line as each of the P vowel-run set, there is another set, starting with the letter N. I’ll let you find them, because I can’t have all the fun.
Why P and N? Who knows; maybe these were the only sets that worked together.
Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.
Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here.
Your thoughts?
