A Dallas man was sentenced to eight years in prison on Wednesday after the authorities caught him with a partially 3-D-printed rifle and what federal prosecutors described as a hit list of lawmakers in his backpack.
The man, Eric Gerard McGinnis, had been under a court order that prohibited him from possessing a firearm when he was discovered to have had the partially printed AR-15-style rifle in July 2017, according to a statement from the United States attorney’s office for the Northern District of Texas.
Mr. McGinnis, 43, was charged with possession of an unregistered firearm and possession of ammunition by a prohibited person, prosecutors said. A jury later convicted him on both counts.
Prosecutors said in their statement that police officers had arrested Mr. McGinnis after hearing three shots he had apparently fired in a wooded area just outside Dallas. They also discovered a list in his backpack labeled “9/11/2001 list of American Terrorists.” The list included the office and home addresses of “several federal lawmakers, both Democrat and Republican,” the statement said.
Prosecutors did not reveal the names on Mr. McGinnis’s list, but at the sentencing hearing on Wednesday they disclosed that a forensic analysis of his electronic devices suggested that Mr. McGinnis “had a strong interest” in James T. Hodgkinson, the man who the authorities say shot and wounded Representative Steve Scalise and several others at a congressional baseball practice in June 2017.
“When he realized he couldn’t legally purchase a firearm, Eric McGinnis circumvented our gun laws by 3-D printing his weapon, eliminating the need for a background check,” United States Attorney Erin Nealy Cox said in the statement. “This case should send a message to prohibited persons contemplating acquiring guns by any method.”
Late Wednesday, Juan G. Rodriguez, a lawyer for Mr. McGinnis, declined to comment on the sentencing.
In August 2015, a judge enacted a protective order against Mr. McGinnis after what prosecutors said was “a violent altercation with a live-in girlfriend.” The order barred him from possessing firearms or ammunition for two years, but Mr. McGinnis tried to buy a semiautomatic rifle component at a federally licensed gun shop in June 2016, prosecutors said.
The prospective purchase was rejected after a background check flagged the order, prosecutors said.
So Mr. McGinnis decided instead to use a 3-D printer to create a gun’s “lower receiver” — its firing mechanism — and obtain other necessary parts like a barrel, stock, and grip through alternate means, prosecutors said. Once he had all the parts he needed, he assembled a short-barrel AR-15-style rifle, they said.
Then, in July 2017, with about a month left on his protective order, Mr. McGinnis took the gun to the wooded area outside Dallas where Grand Prairie police officers, out on another call, heard three shots fired and eventually took him into custody, prosecutors said. Upon inspecting his backpack, they found the loaded gun and the hit list with the names and addresses of federal lawmakers, prosecutors said. At one point during his confrontation with the police, they said, Mr. McGinnis falsely claimed to work for the C.I.A.
“I didn’t buy a gun, I built the gun,” Mr. McGinnis said in a recorded phone call to a family member, according to prosecutors. “I printed a lower, and I built it — installed the trigger and did all that stuff.”
In Wednesday’s statement, Jeffrey C. Boshek II, a special agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, acknowledged that “the fact a prohibited person was able to manufacture an untraceable firearm with apparent ease and anonymity presents a significant challenge and major concern to law enforcement and our community.”
But he also noted, “Controls to determine if an individual is prohibited from purchasing firearms and ammunition worked.”
