GOODYEAR, Ariz. — Deep down, the players get it. When a team is simply not good enough to win, and the front office emphasizes the future over the present, the players can tell. They know their effort goes only so far.
“We always feel like we can win, and then when it’s in the media that we’re rebuilding, it’s tough; it’s almost like a fake kind of energy,” said Scooter Gennett, the second baseman for the suddenly revitalized Cincinnati Reds. “But now, we know that they expect us to win. It’s a lot better. It’s a lot more real. There’s a lot more excitement than past years.”
No team arrived at spring training this year with a bigger turnaround in expectations than the Reds. The only team in the majors with at least 90 losses in each of the last four seasons, the Reds simply decided they were tired of it.
They traded for the veteran starters Sonny Gray, Tanner Roark and Alex Wood, improving a rotation with a 4.97 earned run average since 2015, the highest in the National League in that period. They added the slugging outfielders Matt Kemp and Yasiel Puig. They also hired a new manager and 10 — yes, 10 — new coaches.
“When they made these moves, that made me excited, because finally, I think this is our year,” third baseman Eugenio Suarez said. “I think this is the moment the Reds are going to be better. Why not make the playoffs and win the World Series?
“When you see Milwaukee make the playoffs last year and they made a lot of moves, everybody asks: ‘What’s going to happen with the Reds? Why are you guys not making those moves?’ And when you see us making moves this year, that’s what everybody wants.”
Every other N.L. Central team has reached the playoffs since the Reds’ last winning season, 2013, when they lost a wild-card game in Pittsburgh. Only one player from that roster, first baseman Joey Votto, has been with the Reds ever since. Attendance has dropped each season at Great American Ball Park, crashing to 1.62 million last year, the lowest for the franchise since 1984, when the team played at Riverfront Stadium.
The Reds responded then by bringing back Pete Rose in late summer and making him a player-manager. They hired a different Cincinnati native as manager this time: David Bell, a former infielder with strong baseball bloodlines but none of Rose’s baggage.
Bell, 46, is a third-generation Red. His grandfather, Gus, was a four-time All-Star outfielder in the 1950s, and his father, Buddy, played infield for parts of four seasons in the 1980s. David Bell, who starred at Cincinnati’s Moeller High School, managed four seasons in the Reds’ farm system after his 12-year playing career.
“It’s hard to explain how much it means to do this job in Cincinnati and for this organization,” he said. “You get to a point where you could probably feel that way anywhere, but there’s just a built-in level of motivation here. It’s inside of me; it’s part of me.”
Dick Williams, the Reds’ president for baseball operations, said Bell’s background was only a bonus. Most impressive, he said, was Bell’s thoughtful path to the job interview: After coaching for the Chicago Cubs and the St. Louis Cardinals, he left the field to be farm director for the San Francisco Giants.
“That was pretty telling, that he was comfortable doing that,” Williams said. “It showed me that he understood the bigger picture, that nowadays in managing these teams, you have to understand what goes on in all the different buckets. So now I can interact with him and know that there’s an awareness, from running a player-development system for a year, of what’s going on behind the scenes.”
Like most teams in a downturn, the Reds traded veterans for young talent, acquiring starters Luis Castillo and Anthony DeSclafani that way. Suarez and Gennett made their first All-Star appearances last season; Suarez arrived in a trade with Detroit for pitcher Alfredo Simon in 2014, Gennett on a waiver claim from Milwaukee in 2017.
The Reds also revived their farm system with high draft picks like Nick Senzel, who was No. 2 over all in 2016 and could be the starting center fielder. Williams and the general manager, Nick Krall, also used prospects and a draft pick in trades for Gray (from the Yankees), Roark (from the Washington Nationals) and Kemp, Puig and Wood (from the Dodgers).
“That’s exactly what those prospects are for, to help us take a step forward,” Williams said. “I think we have a chance this year, but just as importantly, it’s this feeling of emerging from the rebuild, and a feeling for the guys in this clubhouse that the front office is behind them and trying to do things to win.”
The coaching hires, Williams said, were critical to that effort. Catcher Curt Casali called it a “rock-star coaching staff,” which includes two members from last year’s N.L. Championship Series: Turner Ward, the former Dodgers hitting coach, and Derek Johnson, the former Brewers pitching coach, who worked with Gray at Vanderbilt.
“They felt like we could do it sooner rather than later,” Johnson said, referring to his conversations with the Reds’ front office. “It didn’t seem like it had to be a four- or five-year experiment where we’re figuring it out as we go. They were unified from that standpoint.”
Part of the plan is a more sophisticated use of technology, including cameras and radar devices by Edgertronic and Rapsodo to provide instant feedback on players’ movements. The forward-thinking Houston Astros helped set this trend, and the Reds hope they have caught up.
“We’re in the loop now,” Casali said. “We’re trying to be progressive and give ourselves the best chance of competing.”
The Reds still face a rigorous challenge in the N.L. Central, where every team expects to contend. If the Reds fall far behind by midsummer, they will be tempted to trade Wood, Kemp, Puig and Roark, who can all be free agents after the season.
But for the first time in several years, the Reds do not have to pretend. They will not be division favorites, but they are hopeful. That counts for something.
“You don’t do everything based on, ‘Well, it raises my playoff odds this much but not this much, so maybe,’ ” Williams said. “Hey, it gives us a better chance. Let’s go. It’s time.”
