Our guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.
JUST KIDDING: ‘THE AMAZING STORY MACHINE’ at Symphony Space (Feb. 23, 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.). Don’t expect high-tech wizardry here; it’s no spoiler to say that the titular invention in this interactive show breaks down in short order. But if you missed the production when it played at the Tank in the fall, now’s your chance to see how the characters, the Cousins Grimm, make up for the loss of their newfangled device: with ingenious puppets — designed by Ora Fruchter — that are assembled from whatever is at hand (including their hands). Presented by the theater troupe Doppelskope as part of Symphony Space’s Just Kidding series, the inspired results are three Grimm classics as you’ve never seen them.212-864-5400, symphonyspace.org
THE NEW SHANGHAI CIRCUS at the Schimmel Center at Pace University (Feb. 24, 4 p.m.). Numerous circuses have incorporated lions, but this is one of the rarer variety in which you’re likely to see a lion dance. That art form and other Chinese cultural traditions combine with more conventional circus skills in the shows by this company, which will visit Manhattan on Sunday and Queens on March 23. The troupe’s more than 40 performers offer acrobatics, aerial acts, juggling, balancing, contortions, feats of strength and displays of agility — like roller-skating in and out of a row of delicate glass vases. 212-346-1715, schimmelcenter.org
NEW YORK WILD FILM FESTIVAL FAMILY PROGRAM at the Explorers Club (Feb. 24, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.). You can always escape February bleakness by enjoying music or dance, but how often are the tunes remixed from the calls of endangered animals, or the moves made by a plumage-challenged bird trying to attract a mate? They are in this program, which offers 11 nature films. In Drew Fulton’s “Remixing Madagascar,” the sound artist Ben Mirin creates music from recordings of lemurs, frogs, birds like the vanga and other animals (Mirin will demonstrate his work during a discussion after the screening), and in “The Great Pretender,” the director Nardine Groch films the courtship struggles of a superb lyrebird. Dof Dickinson chronicles a species’s long ocean journey in “The Mystery of the Gnaraloo Sea Turtles,” while Ami Vitale, who will also take part in a Q. and A., records a visit to a Kenyan refuge for orphaned elephants she took with Dave Matthews, known primarily for his music. Her documentary “Dave Matthews & Reteti Elephant Sanctuary” captures a commitment to conservation that the festival also hopes to awaken in its young audience. (Remaining tickets are very limited and will be sold at the door for cash or check only; prospective buyers should arrive by 10:30 a.m.)nywildfilmfestival.com
‘NOT MY MONSTER!’ at the Flea Theater (Feb. 23, 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; through March 30). Western culture has stories about poltergeists, while Slavic folklore offers tales about domovye, spirits that are far more benevolent. A kind of household guardian in the form of a bearded little man, a domovoy plays a central role in this hourlong show, running every Saturday and presented by the Bats, the Flea’s resident company. Written by Nick Gandiello for Cereals, the theater’s series for young audiences, the play features the members of a Russian family who worry that their personal domovoy might not have accompanied them when financial troubles forced them to move to a rundown cabin in a swamp. Each ticket purchase will include a snack appropriate for the occasion: a box of cereal.212-352-3101, theflea.org
[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]
‘REVOLUTIONARY WOMEN’ at the Fraunces Tavern Museum (Feb. 24, 2 p.m.). Although the forefathers seem to get all the credit, women also played roles in the American Revolution. In this solo show, Darci Tucker, a teaching artist, will portray three 18th-century female figures: two who aided independence and one who tried to subvert it. Jane Walker, a fictional composite character, represents the many wives who did support work for the military. Deborah Samson, however, who disguised herself as a man and fought alongside the patriots, was a real person, as was Elizabeth Thompson, a loyalist spy. Before Tucker’s one-hour play, families can also go on a Women of the Revolutionary War museum tour. (Spaces for the tour are limited; registration details are on the event’s web page.)212-425-1778, frauncestavernmuseum.org
THEATRESPORTS at the Gallery Players Theater (Feb. 24, noon). These contests don’t involve bats, rackets, hoops, balls or any other kind of athletic equipment, but they do require volleying things that have a force all their own: words. The members of Freestyle Repertory Theater, an improvisational troupe that does school residencies as well as monthly matinees during the academic year at this Brooklyn theater, divide into two teams that compete to come up with the most creative skits. Young people not only help suggest subjects and situations, but also have opportunities to join the players in presenting their outrageous tales.718-595-0547, ext. 6; galleryplayers.com
TRIBECA DRIVE-IN: DINNER AND A MOVIE at the Westfield World Trade Center (through Feb. 24). Leave the car at home. This film series, presented in partnership with the Tribeca Film Festival, takes place inside the Oculus, but it does offer some of the advantages of an old-fashioned drive-in: food, a relaxed atmosphere and no strain on anyone’s budget (the screenings are free). All previous Oscar winners or nominees, the movies include “Field of Dreams” (1989), the baseball-classic-cum-ghost-story, on Friday at 7 p.m.; “Hugo” (2011), Martin Scorsese’s adaptation of Brian Selznick’s children’s novel about the early days of film, on Saturday at noon; Steven Spielberg’s “E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial” (1982), which needs no introduction unless you’re a space alien yourself, on Saturday at 7 p.m.; and “Finding Neverland” (2004), the fictionalized biography of J. M. Barrie, starring Johnny Depp, on Sunday at noon. The showings, which are first come first served, will be preceded by musical performances by up-and-coming artists.westfield.com/wtc
