WASHINGTON — First, Roger J. Stone Jr. said he did not look at the photo of a federal judge, with an image of cross hairs in the corner by her head, before he posted it on Instagram on Monday. Then, testifying under oath on Thursday in front of the same judge, he acknowledged that he had looked at the photo before he posted it, but said a volunteer had chosen it.
Finally, Mr. Stone, who is under indictment on charges brought by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, said he had picked out the photo from a group of several that were provided to him by a volunteer he could not name.
During a 90-minute hearing in Federal District Court in Washington, Amy Berman Jackson, the judge in the photograph, was having none of it. Openly incredulous at Mr. Stone’s inconsistent explanations of the Instagram post, she issued a gag order intended to force him into public silence about the criminal case against him.
She warned him that if he violated her order, she would revoke his bail and put him behind bars for the duration of his trial. “This is not baseball,” she said sternly. “There will be no third chance. If you cannot abide by this, I will be forced to change your surroundings so you have no temptations.”
For one of the few times in his 40-year career as a Republican political trickster, provocateur and attack dog, the irrepressibly loquacious Mr. Stone had nothing to say in reply.
Mr. Stone, a former Trump campaign aide and longtime friend of the president, faces felony charges of obstruction of justice, witness tampering and making false statements in a case stemming from the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Prosecutors allege that Mr. Stone deceived the House Intelligence Committee about his efforts to contact WikiLeaks during the 2016 presidential election and that he tried to pressure another witness to lie to the committee.
Since the F.B.I. agents raided his house four weeks ago, he has remained defiant, protesting his innocence and casting himself as the helpless victim of a rigged prosecution. His public campaign culminated on Monday with the Instagram post, an attack on Judge Jackson as an appointee of President Barack Obama who would preside over “my upcoming show trial.” He asked for contributions to his defense fund to combat the “legal trickery” of “hitman Robert Mueller.”
On the stand, he abandoned his typical combativeness, repeatedly apologizing to the judge for what he called an inexcusable, egregious error of judgment.
“I am kicking myself over my own stupidity,” he said. “Forgive me the trespass.”
He said he was suffering from extreme emotional and financial stress. His savings were exhausted, he said, and his business as a public commentator and consultant, which once earned him $47,000 a month, had dwindled badly.
“I am having trouble putting food on the table and paying the rent,” he said.
He said he posted the Instagram image without thinking that a photograph of Judge Jackson that appeared to include the cross hairs of a gun sight might threaten the safety of the judge or others. “I can’t rationalize my thinking because I wasn’t thinking,” he said.
The judge firmly rejected that explanation. As a veteran political propagandist, she said, “Roger Stone fully understands the power of words and the power of symbols.” She added, “There is nothing ambiguous about cross hairs.”
Judge Jackson said Mr. Stone was so obviously eager for public attention that only a strict gag order would curb him from using his public platform to incite his followers with incendiary comments. Although he insisted he was deeply sorry for his actions, she said his apologies rang “hollow.” And she said his “evolving” story about the origin of the Instagram post was not credible.
“Mr. Stone could not even keep his story straight on the stand, much less from one day to another,” she said. The lead prosecutor in the case, Jonathan Ian Kravis, an assistant United States attorney, also accused Mr. Stone of dissembling when he insisted that he could not remember who might have given him photos of Judge Jackson to choose from.
“You cannot remember the names of all the volunteers who worked for you four days ago?” he asked.
Mr. Stone’s post came days after Judge Jackson had restricted Mr. Stone from making public statements on the courthouse steps that “pose a substantial likelihood of material prejudice to this case.” Her new order imposes the same restrictions on him that she has placed on lawyers in the case.
“From this moment on, the defendant may not speak publicly about this case — period. No statements about the case on TV, radio, print reporters or internet. No posts on social media,” Judge Jackson said. She said her order also applied to surrogates who might speak on Mr. Stone’s behalf.
She said Mr. Stone could continue to seek donations to his legal defense fund, but could note only that he had pleaded not guilty — without commenting on the judge, the prosecutors, the witnesses or anyone involved in the case.
Mr. Stone first modified, then deleted his Instagram post on Monday, but screen shots of it circulated widely on social media. “In the world of social media,” Judge Jackson said, “there is no such thing as a take back.”
Even after he deleted the message, she said, Mr. Stone continued to discuss it with reporters, guaranteeing that it received even more attention. He first said the cross hairs were simply the logo of the website where he had found the photograph of the judge, then said they were a “Celtic symbol,” then called them an “occult symbol.”
Judge Jackson said she would set a trial date soon and urged Mr. Stone to focus on the legal jeopardy he faces, not on stoking up his followers or keeping himself in the public eye.
