(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. It’s not clear why the talks in Hanoi collapsed.
President Trump said North Korea wanted all sanctions lifted in exchange for dismantling some, not all, of its nuclear weapons program. “Sometimes you have to walk,” he said. Above, he stopped in Anchorage en route back to Washington.
North Korea’s foreign minister contradicted Mr. Trump’s narrative, saying the North had asked only for some sanctions to be lifted in exchange for “permanently and completely” dismantling an important nuclear facility.
One expert suggested that there had been inadequate preparation for the meeting between Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un and that both might have been too confident in their negotiating skills.
_____
2. Michael Cohen returned to Capitol Hill for a closed-door session with the House intelligence panel, pictured above. And he plans to return for another closed-door session next Wednesday.
We’re still sorting through the spectacle and the content of his public testimony on Wednesday, but this much is clear: Both political parties will be tested as they hurtle toward a confrontation over the fate of the presidency.
And while President Trump’s troubles appear to be growing — our reporting shows that he ordered his chief of staff to give Jared Kushner a top security clearance — it appears unlikely that Democrats will move to impeach him.
_____
3. Israel’s attorney general announced plans to indict Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust, just weeks before he faces re-election. Here’s a look at the accusations.
The case would be the culmination of a two-year investigation into the prime minister’s dealings with wealthy businessmen, newspaper publishers and more. Mr. Netanyahu, who is running for his fourth consecutive term, would be the first sitting prime minister to be indicted if the case proceeds.
He went on national TV, in prime time, to deliver a lengthy, emotional response, pictured above.
_____
4. Fish stocks are shrinking globally as a result of climate change, putting a key source of food and income for millions around the world at risk, according to a new study published in the journal Science.
The amount of seafood humans could sustainably harvest decreased by 4.1 percent from 1930 to 2010, according to the research, which examined 235 fish populations in 38 ecological regions around the globe. Above, a fresh catch at the port of Sakaiminato, Japan.
Separately, Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, was confirmed to be the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
_____
5. Can big internet messaging companies succeed where cryptocurrency start-ups failed?
Over the next year, Facebook, Telegram and Signal plan to roll out cryptocurrencies that their users can send to contacts.
Their big advantage? Being able to make their digital wallets available, in an instant, to hundreds of millions of users.
_____
6. Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, pleaded not guilty to charges of soliciting prostitutes in Florida.
The plea was not a surprise. After Mr. Kraft was charged with two first-degree misdemeanors of soliciting prostitution last week, the Patriots denied that he participated in any illegal activity.
Our reporters profiled Palm Beach, above, the image-conscious haven of billionaires and millionaires where Mr. Kraft maintains a grand mansion. Some residents said they were baffled that a man worth an estimated $6.6 billion would risk his reputation on a $79-an-hour massage.
_____
7. $330 million.
That’s the value of the contract Bryce Harper signed, a 13-year deal with the Philadelphia Phillies that is the most expensive in the history of baseball. The deal for Mr. Harper, 26, an outfielder formerly with the Washington Nationals, effectively ties him to the Phillies for the rest of his career.
A handful of prominent free agents are still unsigned, including reliever Craig Kimbrel, starters Dallas Keuchel and Gio Gonzalez and outfielder Carlos Gonzalez.
_____
8. A powerful Broadway producer is killing productions of “To Kill a Mockingbird” nationwide.
Small theaters around the country, like the one pictured above in Buffalo, have been getting cease-and-desist letters from lawyers for Scott Rudin, the producer of Aaron Sorkin’s Broadway adaptation, claiming exclusive rights.
Some have had to cancel their iterations of the popular play, even after casting actors, rehearsing and selling tickets.
On a lighter note, our writer Taffy Brodesser-Akner confessed she had never seen “Fiddler on the Roof” until a new Yiddish version came to Off Broadway.
_____
9. Two great New York stories:
After a decade as the New York Police Department’s lone horseman of Central Park, Detective John Reilly — along with his horse, Trooper — is retiring. At 63, Detective Reilly is perhaps the city’s oldest uniformed officer. He faces mandatory retirement and is reluctant to relinquish the reins.
“He’s put up with my singing and my bad jokes,” Detective Reilly said of Trooper.
And in the latest from our Overlooked series: Donald Joseph White, considered a legend before “street art” became popular, turned the city’s subways into rolling canvases of color, humor and social commentary. He never received a formal Times obituary, until now.
_____
10. Finally, we’re turning the lens around.
Fifty years ago, “A Day in the Life of The New York Times,” a 230-page book written by Ruth Adler, above, chronicled 24 hours at the Gray Lady.
The anniversary inspired us to take look at how The Times operates today. We talked with editors and reporters around the world to give you a detailed look at how our report comes together on many platforms alongside the print newspaper.
“It used to be that at 1 a.m. the paper shut down,” one of our Asia editors in Hong Kong said. “Now that we have digital editing hubs in London and Hong Kong, we’re 24 hours.”
Goodnight from New York!
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
