GOLDEN CHILD By Claire Adam 281 pp. SJP for Hogarth. $26.
Dogs are a looming, watchful presence throughout Adam’s unblinking depiction of a crime-besieged Trinidadian landscape where robbers and kidnappers target the poor and well-off alike and even those who can invest in security systems must be wary of the men who install them. The Rottweiler and two pothounds kept by Clyde and Joy, the working-class couple at the locus of this wrenching novel, aren’t enough to ward off a break-in that leaves Joy tied up and traumatized along with their twin sons, Peter and Paul.
More than anything, the event exposes the worrisome vulnerability of learning-disabled Paul, whose failure to inoculate himself against the routine dangers of his rough-and-tumble environs is reinforced by the “retarded” identity his family and teachers have imposed on him. When the boy suddenly goes missing, Adam retraces the years preceding his disappearance. As she works inexorably to the novel’s harrowing resolution, she deploys the varying points of view of Paul, his parents and a selfless priest — but not, to the book’s detriment, that of Paul’s high-achieving brother. In fluid and uncluttered prose, “Golden Child” weaves an enveloping portrait of an insular social order in which the claustrophobic support of family and neighbors coexists with an omnipresent threat from the same corners. As a bighearted relative blithely remarks: “It’s still family. In-law or out-law, no matter!”
THE FAR FIELD By Madhuri Vijay 432 pp. Grove. $27.
This consuming novel tracks the convergence of two Indian communities: the privileged society of bourgeois Bangalore, where Vijay’s flinty young narrator, Shalini, is cosseted by her wealthy father and caustically unfiltered mother, and, far to the north, a hardscrabble Himalayan village in Kashmir. The conduit for this coming together is Bashir Ahmed, a plucky Kashmiri clothing salesman who ingratiates himself with mother and daughter during Shalini’s childhood, only to disappear from their life years later after a disastrous party her father throws in his honor. Prompted by her mother’s subsequent death, Shalini journeys to Kashmir in search of Bashir, falling into the rabbit hole of quotidian suffering the impoverished locals endure, caught in the cross hairs of insurgent militants and government soldiers.
The author teases along her protagonist’s political awakening with nagging mysteries (How did Shalini’s mother die? Was Bashir complicit in the mass murder of Hindu villagers?) and the occasional hoary gothic-romance trope (the sullen-but-smitten Kashmiri who admonishes the interloping Shalini, “You should not have come here”). But Vijay’s command of storytelling is so supple that it’s easy to discount the stealth with which she constructs her tale, shifting time frames with seamless ease and juggling a wealth of characters who cling to the heart. The show-stealer is Shalini’s mercurial mother, an “outrageous queen” of capricious gestures. Vijay smartly resists psychoanalyzing her, implying that the china-shop bulls in our families can be survived but never entirely explained away.
THE PATRICIDE OF GEORGE BENJAMIN HILL By James Charlesworth 354 pp. Arcade. $24.99.
The potential murder victim at the center of Charlesworth’s novel is the sort of bruising paterfamilias who once might have skulked around the novels of John O’Hara (minus the pedigree), an up-from-nothing entrepreneur whose vast fortune is amassed with a wanton disregard for kith and kin. The multigenerational trauma incurred by this oil-and-fast-food magnate’s neglect is impressive: a first wife institutionalized after a bungled suicide attempt, a middle-aged son looping in place over his failed play for baseball glory, another son wigging out with paranoia and delusions, a drug-addicted ragamuffin daughter whose most dignified gig is working as a serving wench in a Las Vegas Tournament of Kings show. And don’t forget the fatally addicted granddaughter and the son who’s implicated in the violent deaths of several men.
Hill’s broken brood gravitate toward lower-depths locales like swine to pigsties. We’re invited to follow them into excrement-redolent holding cells at Rikers Island, cramped Hell’s Kitchen halfway houses, the “darkest, most sorrow-intensifying” New York bars and the sin districts of Fairbanks, Alaska, “a place of almost caricatured debauchery.” Throw in J.F.K.’s assassination, 9/11 and grim Vietnam fantasias and you have a feverishly overwrought wallow that teeters risibly close to death-of-American-dream porn. At best, there’s a weird integrity to Charlesworth’s melodramatic vision. But even devotees of the downbeat may be tripped up by the author’s penchant for numbingly repetitive clauses that seem like syntactic declarations of war on readers.
TALENT By Juliet Lapidos 241 pp. Little, Brown. $27
Pity the poor graduate student who can’t finish her dissertation. Or not. Those are the options that gnaw at our sympathies as we contemplate the inertia of Anna Brisker, a doctoral candidate in literature whose path to the highest ranks of academia would seem to be ensured by her elite education and entitled mix of condescension, smug liberalism and self-professed deficit of the generosity required to mentor others. When she hits a wall on her magnum opus (a discourse on creative inspiration, ha!) Anna shifts her scholarly compass toward the foreshortened career of Frederick Langley, a deceased short-story writer who slammed the brakes on his career at the peak of his popularity. Endeavoring to access Langley’s notebooks, she cozies up to his niece, a down-at-the-heels dealer in antiquarian books who isn’t above employing a little Lee Israel-style hocus-pocus to produce fake inventory for a credulous clientele.
If Lapidos’s attempts at conjuring a surrogate Yale University and New Haven feel like an elaborate distraction, her stabs at literary counterfeiting are inspired. She intersperses Anna’s feckless investigation into Langley’s past with notebook jottings that convincingly evoke the hunting and gathering of an alert writer as he sifts for fodder from childhood trauma and the detritus of daily experience. The journals reveal, and spark, a plethora of transgressions: theft, blackmail, adultery, parental cruelty. But in a pressure-cooker ecosystem where you’re only as worthy as your last published tome, the most grievous crime of all may be calling it quits.
