Good morning.
(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)
Do you feel like you can afford to live in California?
If you said no to that question, you’d be in good company: 43 percent of Californians would agree with you.
The one part of the state where they’d be less likely to feel the crunch? The Bay Area — land of some of the nation’s most crushing housing and child care costs — where 65 percent of registered voters said, yes, they feel as if they can afford to live here.
Still, 77 percent of Californians acknowledged the state’s housing crisis, including 85 percent in the Bay.
And that’s compared with 52 percent of L.A. County residents who said they felt as if they could afford to live in the Golden State and 53 percent of Inland and Valley residents.
Those are a few findings from Quinnipiac University’s first California-specific poll.
Quinnipiac is known for its national election polling, as well as a source for public opinions in states like New York, New Jersey, Florida and Ohio. But until now, not California.
Doug Schwartz, director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said that’s mostly a function of momentum.
Tim Malloy, assistant director of the poll, said the university had always had its eye on the West.
“For a long time, we’ve been talking about it,” he said. “The last several months, there’s been a confluence of issues — the wall, immigration, global warming, climate, housing home prices and potential presidential candidates — it’s got everything.”
California, Mr. Malloy said, is a microcosm of the country.
Still, he said, he was a little surprised by some of the results.
For instance, one number that got a bit of attention: While 58 percent of Californians said they’d be excited if Senator Kamala Harris became the Democratic nominee for president, only 40 percent said she’d make a good president.
“She’s very, very well-known,” Mr. Malloy said. And if people would be excited for her candidacy, “why the heck wouldn’t she make a good president?”
Mr. Schwartz said one more statistic that struck him as curious was that 43 percent of voters said forest mismanagement was more responsible for the severity of wildfires than climate change. The same percentage said the opposite — that they thought climate change was more responsible than forest mismanagement.
Check out the rest of the results here.
(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)
• Pacific Gas and Electric submitted its newly required plan to reduce wildfires. The troubled utility said it would cut power during dry and windy weather more often, trim more trees along power lines and spend as much as $2.3 billion on the efforts. [The New York Times]
• And in other woes for PG&E, the gas pipeline that shot a massive flame into a San Francisco street on Wednesday was one of numerous lines in the city that can’t be cut off automatically. One expert said it shouldn’t have taken as long as it did to get the fire under control. [The San Francisco Chronicle]
• The Richmond-San Rafael Bridge reopened after closing abruptly because large chunks of concrete were tumbling off it and onto passing vehicles. [The Mercury News]
• Liberal Democrats made their formal call for a “Green New Deal,” which the Republican National Committee derided as a “socialist wish list.” But Democratic presidential hopefuls like Senator Kamala Harris leaned into the idea. [The New York Times]
• In order to cover its promised pay for some Amazon delivery contractors, the company dipped into their tips. [The Los Angeles Times]
• Residents of Fresno’s poorest neighborhood thought high-speed rail could transform it. But now they’re worried it could be another false promise. [The Center for Public Integrity]
• Who is Gavin de Becker, Jeff Bezos’ longtime security chief? He’s the product of a childhood full of the violence and fear he’s now paid to shield others from. And he grew up among the Hollywood elite. [The New York Times]
• Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame slugger and the first black manager in major league baseball, died at home in Los Angeles on Thursday. He grew up in Oakland and managed the San Francisco Giants. [The New York Times]
• Read the strange, sad tale of a young woman who moved from Indiana to California to work in cannabis and followed two hackers to her death. [Buzzfeed]
• It’s been raining and snowing in California. That means it’s boom time for the state’s mountain resorts. [The New York Times]
• Watch this Anatomy of a Scene from “Velvet Buzzsaw,” which is supposed to be a sendup of the L.A. art world. [The New York Times]
Somehow it’s almost Valentine’s Day already.
The gift and dining guides are trickling out. So are the sweet stories, like this one, about a Bakersfield couple who will get married next month at age 90 and 89.
The two were high school sweethearts in 1944 before they went their separate ways, lived separate lives, raised separate sets of children. But then, as The Bakersfield Californian reported, not long after Earle Murie lost his wife of 67 years, Laurette Ellis called to wish him a happy birthday.
And just like that, their new life together started.
If you’re looking for love stories that involve more 21st century concerns, The Times, of course, has its tiny love stories. They come from all over. But I’d love to read about uniquely California love. So if you have a tiny California love story — 100 words or less — send it to CAtoday@nytimes.com.
California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays.
Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.
California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
