THURSDAY PUZZLE — Yes, hi there. Remember when I told you in “How to Solve The New York Times Crossword” that you couldn’t always predict where to find the theme in late-week puzzles? And that on rare occasions, the theme might actually go on walkabout and leave the grid?
All I’m saying is that it is not a good idea to think it could never happen. Because it does. Also, while you solve Morton J. Mendelson’s puzzle, you’ll need to find a place to go.
As always, that’s a hint, but hopefully not a spoiler.
9A: Fun fact, especially if your brain makes connections the way my brain does: The U.K., which is sort of ruled over by a queen, has a Kew Gardens, as does the borough of Queens, which is in N.Y.C. Anyway, the answer to “Carriages in Kew Gardens” (the British one) is PRAMS.
14A: The “band with a slash in its name” is AC/DC, but this would also be a great clue for GUNS N’ ROSES if the S in “slash” was capitalized.
26A: I seem to remember reading that platypuses hatch from EGGs, but did you know that there are only a handful of other mammals that do so, and that these mammals may have survived because they took to the water instead of living solely on land?
36A: Tricky! Focus on the word “it” here. The answer to “What you may call it?” is NOUN, because “it” is a noun.
38A: “Air condition?” could be read as a verb, but that question mark turns this clue into another tricky part-of-speech misdirection. If we read it as a noun, a possible condition of air is WIND.
42A: Please congratulate CARMEN SANDIEGO on her full name debut in the New York Times Crossword. (If you can find her.)
51A: If you’ve “downed a sub?,” you may have made a military maneuver (although I’d be more likely to claim that I downed a plane, because a sub is already down, isn’t it?). But you might have also chowed down: The answer is ATE.
52A: Not familiar with “Goethe’s ‘The ERL-King’”? Luckily, we have a “What the Heck Is That?” on that. You can find more in our Words to Know section.
61A: Which did you think of first for the clue “Diamond datum”: baseball or gemstones? The five-letter answer to the clue could have been CARAT, but in this puzzle it’s AT BAT.
68A: “Poor Richard’s Almanack” was a publication by Benjamin Franklin that was full of advice, recipes and aphorisms, or SAWS. The story behind the “Almanack” is very interesting. I could go down a very deep rabbit hole researching things like this, so I’ll let you read it yourself.
8D: The word “blanket” is used here to misdirect solvers into thinking the clue is about a cloth blanket, but it’s not; “Having a white blanket” in this puzzle means that it is SNOWY outside.
24D: The entry ORDO could be an ugly partial, but it’s clued well here, especially for a Thursday, when solvers need to reach a bit more to get the answer. On the dollar bill, the Latin words “novus ORDO seclorum,” which is interpreted as “a new order of the ages,” can be found under the pyramid on the back.
29D: Do you want to have a ton of fun? If you live in London, or you have a chance to go there, try mudlarking. [This has to do with the puzzle, right? — Ed.] [Yes. Eventually. — D.A.] A former colleague who grew up in London turned me on to this. The foreshore of the Thames is a veritable treasure trove of ancient pottery shards, glass bottles, coins, and sailors’s clay pipe STEMs [See? — D.A.] that are just lying on the sand, because the river has never been dredged. You need a permit to mudlark, but definitely give it a try. Your inner archaeologist will thank you.
This will be a lot easier to visualize if you are solving in print, but Mr. Mendelson offers us eight theme entries in which part of each answer either begins or ends outside the grid, kind of like an anti-rebus.
Take a look at 5D. I already had _ _ TEETH (clued as “Some expensive dental work”) as I tried to figure the theme out and, even though I grew up deprived, having never drawn LOTS, it didn’t take long for me to fill in the entry: LDTEETH.
What does that mean?
It turns out that the expensive dental work consists of GOLD TEETH, but the GO sits just outside the grid, leaving us with LDTEETH. Yes, that’s completely fair. Please reread the above.
Similarly, the answer to “‘No one can get in a fight by himself,’ informally” is IT TAKES TWO TO TANGO, with the GO hanging out right over the edge of the eastern part of the grid.
Speaking of going over the edge, Mr. Mendelson elegantly gives us a shove with the revealer at 58A, which just happens to be GO OVER THE EDGE.
I started this puzzle simply thinking about breaking the constraints of a 15 x 15 grid and looking for expressions that would help me do that. OUTSIDE THE BOX was an obvious possibility, but I couldn’t figure out where to take it. OVER THE EDGE was also obvious, and I thought of using expressions with OVER dangling over the edge. It was simple enough finding possibilities ending in OVER that don’t carry the meaning of OVER, like FOUR-LEAF CLOVER, but the same isn’t true for expressions that start with OVER. So I dropped the idea and let it simmer in the background.
Then, one day during my walk to the gym, when I was mulling over OVER THE EDGE, I had an “Aha!” moment; actually more like a forehead slapping “Duh!” moment. I could use GOES OVER THE EDGE to indicate words and phrases that begin or end with the word GO hanging over the edge.
Of course, there isn’t necessarily a direct route from an idea to seeing one’s puzzle in print. My first submission included GOES OVER THE EDGE as the reveal, which I liked, because it has 15 letters and captures the idea that there is more than one GO over the edge. But Will saw it differently and thought GO OVER THE EDGE would be “much more elegant.” Although I didn’t fully agree, I wasn’t in a position to argue with “much more elegant,” so I completely redid the puzzle, resubmitted it, tweaked it a bit more and finally hit the mark.
I hope the puzzle doesn’t send anyone over any edges, other than ones in the 15 x 15 grid.
Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.
Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here.
Your thoughts?
