The federal government on Tuesday lost its second court challenge to AT&T’s $85.4 billion merger with Time Warner, a blockbuster deal that has already begun to reshape much of the media industry.
A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected the government’s claim that a lower court had applied antitrust laws incorrectly in allowing the merger to proceed. Justice Department lawyers have argued that the combination of the two companies would reduce competition and hurt consumers.
“The government’s objections that the District Court misunderstood and misapplied economic principles and clearly erred in rejecting the quantitative model are unpersuasive,” Judge Judith W. Rogers wrote on behalf of the panel.
The Justice Department does not plan another appeal, a spokesman for the agency, Jeremy Edwards, said. “We are grateful that the Court of Appeals considered our objections,” he said.
AT&T can now proceed with its plan to transform WarnerMedia into a streaming-video business in its version of the television industry’s go-to strategy. The company has said it would unveil several online video products by early next year, with the premium cable channel HBO anchoring a service that would feature films and television shows from the Warner Bros. library. (HBO will continue to be available as a stand-alone service.)
That means blockbuster movies like “Wonder Woman” and installments of the Harry Potter franchise could show up on the service next to TV shows like “Friends” and HBO hits like “Game of Thrones.” AT&T also plans to license some of its video properties to services like Netflix, a strategy that could undermine its own streaming product since audiences would be able to watch its shows and movies elsewhere.
The appeals court ruling was a blow to the Justice Department and its lead antitrust regulator, Makan Delrahim, a conservative appointed by President Trump. Mr. Delrahim had sought a divestiture of some Time Warner assets as a condition of allowing the deal to go through, but AT&T’s chief executive, Randall Stephenson, refused to make such concessions.
In a statement, David McAtee, AT&T’s general counsel, welcomed the appeals court’s decision, which followed a lower-court ruling last June.
“The merger of these innovative companies has already yielded significant consumer benefits, and it will continue to do so for years to come,” Mr. McAtee said. “While we respect the important role that the U.S. Department of Justice plays in the merger review process, we trust that today’s unanimous decision from the D.C. Circuit will end this litigation.”
By challenging the transaction in court, the Justice Department signaled that it would have an aggressive approach to so-called vertical mergers between companies with complementary businesses.
In the case of AT&T and Time Warner, which has been renamed WarnerMedia, the wireless provider is considered a content distributor and the media business a content supplier. AT&T said that because the companies did not compete, the merger would yield benefits for customers like lower bills and new shows tailored for mobile devices.
The deal brought together one of the nation’s largest wireless providers with a vast media business that includes CNN in addition to HBO and Warner Bros. AT&T has over 153 million wireless subscribers and also owns the satellite TV service DirecTV.
AT&T has been operating WarnerMedia as a separate group, making it easier to unwind the business if the Justice Department prevailed in court. The group will continue to operate as a separate division, but AT&T can now integrate it more deeply with the parent company. That will give AT&T executives direct control over Turner Broadcasting, which the Justice Department sought to force the company to sell as a condition of the deal.
AT&T had agreed to take a hands-off approach to Turner during the appeal, but it can now make staff changes at the unit and take the lead in negotiating licensing deals with cable operators like Comcast or Charter. Turner includes CNN and the cable networks TNT and TBS, which own rights to broadcast games of major sports leagues like Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association.
The merger attracted a significant amount of political interest. As a presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump, who has frequently criticized CNN as “fake news,” vowed to block the deal if he was elected “because it’s too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.”
The Justice Department has insisted that political considerations played no role in the decision to fight it.
William P. Barr, who was confirmed as attorney general this month, was a member of the Time Warner board until June. He told senators at his confirmation hearing that he would recuse himself from the agency’s efforts to dismantle the merger. Mr. Barr held more than $4.2 million worth of Time Warner stock at the end of March and sold his shares sometime before the end of June.
The lower court’s approval of Time Warner’s merger with AT&T touched off an intense round of deal making. Comcast and the Walt Disney Company clashed in a fiercely contested bidding war for the bulk of 21st Century Fox, the media empire created by Rupert Murdoch.
Disney eventually won, securing the rights to Mr. Murdoch’s film studios, including 20th Century Fox, and several of his cable networks. Comcast, which owns NBCUniversal, separately won a bid for the British satellite broadcaster Sky, which the Murdoch family had controlled. (Mr. Murdoch will continue to control Fox News and Fox broadcasting, as well as the sports network FS1 and the business network Fox Business.) CBS and Viacom, both controlled by the Redstone family, could pursue a merger this year.
The government’s approach to the AT&T-Time Warner merger contrasts sharply with its relatively quick approval of Disney’s acquisition of 21st Century Fox’s entertainment properties. That agreement, which called for Disney to pay $71.3 billion for Fox’s television and movie business, was approved in June, about six months after it was announced. Transactions of such size typically take a year or more.
After AT&T closed the deal with Time Warner in June, it quickly appointed an executive to oversee the new acquisition. The move led some people to worry that the company would foist its mechanized methods onto Time Warner. But AT&T has said it plans to preserve the entertainment giant’s culture of talent and creativity.
AT&T also has to prove to its investors that it can pay off its staggering debt load of $171 billion, much more than most public companies carry. The company borrowed $40 billion to finance the Time Warner acquisition. Mr. Stephenson has said AT&T should be able to pay off about $30 billion of its debt this year.
The wireless industry continues to face substantial challenges. The nation’s four major carriers — AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and Sprint — have been locked in a price war for several years. Most people in the country already pay for mobile service, and the carriers have had to lower their prices to steal customers away from one another. That has reduced profits, prompting new strategies.
AT&T bought Time Warner in a bid to hold on to customers by offering added products like HBO and other video services, either at discounted rates or as part of a package.
Verizon has taken a different tack. By investing more heavily in the next-generation cellular technology known as 5G, the company hopes to beat its rivals in offering customers faster internet speeds. The technology could eventually replace the broadband services now sold by cable providers. T-Mobile and Sprint are seeking approval for a merger that would create a bigger company able to supercharge its own investments in 5G technology.
