[Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]
It’s Tuesday. How much would you pay for the Knicks? The team’s owner, James Dolan, is reportedly looking for a buyer.
Weather: Bright, chilly and dry today. Tomorrow, we could see afternoon snow turn to rain by night.
Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 6 (Ash Wednesday).
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unseated a 10-term congressional incumbent last year, arguing it was time for more progressive policies and diverse representation.
It worked.
And by next year, New York City may be the epicenter of Ocasio-Cortez-like campaigns for the House of Representatives, aimed at incumbents.
“We are trying to elect more Alexandrias,” said the head of the Justice Democrats, a group that was instrumental in Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory.
[Read about the Ocasio-Cortez effect on the 2020 primaries.]
Here’s a snapshot of the scene in New York:
Representative Thomas Suozzi, Third District (Long Island, Queens)
Potential challenger: Robert Zimmerman, a Democratic National Committee member
Mr. Suozzi said he supported “some physical structures” on the United States border with Mexico. Mr. Zimmerman said Mr. Suozzi did “not stand up for mainstream Democratic principles.”
Representative Kathleen Rice, Fourth District (Long Island)
Potential challenger: Kevan Abrahams, a Nassau County legislator
Ms. Rice opposed Representative Nancy Pelosi’s election as House speaker and has not embraced the “Green New Deal,” a progressive proposal to fight climate change. Mr. Abrahams narrowly lost to Ms. Rice in 2014.
Representative Yvette Clarke, Ninth District (Brooklyn)
Potential challenger: Adem Bunkeddeko
Ms. Clarke narrowly defeated Mr. Bunkeddeko in 2018, when he argued that she was insufficiently progressive. She said that she was better prepared now to serve constituents and get her message out.
Representative Jerrold Nadler, 10th District (Manhattan, Brooklyn)
Potential challenger: Lindsey Boylan, a former adviser to the governor
Mr. Nadler, 71, has been in Congress for 27 years. Ms. Boylan said, “I just can’t justify having my daughter watch me sit on the sidelines.”
Also, Mr. Nadler, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, has resisted opening a formal impeachment inquiry for President Trump. Now the congressman is the target of a $200,000 ad blitz from a California billionaire who supports impeachment.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, 12th District (Manhattan, Queens)
Potential challenger: Suraj Patel
Ms. Maloney, 71, who has been in Congress for 26 years, defeated Mr. Patel last year by a narrower percentage than was customary for her, suggesting vulnerability. Mr. Patel argued that Ms. Maloney had been in office too long and accused her of being “recklessly indifferent to the less privileged.”
Representative Jose Serrano, 15th District (Bronx)
Potential challenger: City Councilman Ritchie Torres
Mr. Serrano, 75, has served in Congress for 29 years. Mr. Torres, 30, is a rising star in progressive circles. In 2015, Newsweek wrote of Mr. Torres, “Some whisper he’ll be the country’s first gay president.”
Representative Eliot Engel, 16th District (Bronx, Westchester County)
Potential challenger: Andom Ghebreghiorgis
Mr. Engel, 72, has been in the House for 31 years. Mr. Ghebreghiorgis, 33, said Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory shows that New Yorkers want “representatives who reflect the changing progressive politics of their communities.”
Sunday routine: CNN’s Fareed Zakaria likes running in Riverside Park and at home, and thinks Central Park is “so overrun with tourists you feel like you’re in Disneyland.”
A devastating loss, then charges: A mother whose two children died in a fire pleaded guilty to criminally negligent homicide.
Anthony Weiner is out of prison: He moved into a re-entry center to serve the remainder of his sentence for exchanging lewd messages with a minor.
Trans soldier denied medication in jail: A jury awarded Jessica Sunderland $355,000 in damages.
Why the Amazon deal collapsed: It was fast and caught Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio by surprise.
Anti-Semitic crimes: Thirty-six have been reported so far this year, compared with 21 last year.
[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]
The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.
Ama-gone? Not altogether: Amazon’s New York City work force will grow, just not in Long Island City. [New York magazine]
Fare beaters: Arrests for fare beating are down, but racial disparities continue. [Daily News]
Pride March: Organizers requested more space, which is making some residents wary. [amNew York]
Budding industry: Bodega owners want to sell marijuana when it is legalized. [New York Post]
50 Cent vs. the N.Y.P.D.: The police are investigating whether a top-ranking officer threatened the Queens-born rapper. [Daily News]
Decorate baseballs and pennants for Jackie Robinson Day at the Museum of the City of New York. 11 a.m. [Free with museum admission]
Learn about plants with scavenger hunts and other activities for families at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden’s Steinhardt Conservatory. 11 a.m. [Free]
An open-mic night for musicians and poets at Sister’s Uptown Bookstore & Cultural Center in Washington Heights. 7 p.m. [$7 suggested donation]
A history lesson and beer tasting with two scientists at the American Museum of Natural History. 6:30 p.m. [$20]
The Food Almanac discusses the connections between immigration and the food system at Project Farmhouse near Union Square. 6 p.m. [$15]
— Elisha Brown

Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.
Here’s something you probably don’t know about Amy Klobuchar, the Minnesota senator and Democratic presidential candidate: Her daughter works at the New York City Council.
The daughter, Abigail Bessler, is the legislative director for Councilman Keith Powers of Manhattan’s East Side.
But this is 2019, and there are many candidates with roots in New York. So, is Mr. Powers supporting Ms. Bessler’s mother for president? He politely sidestepped the question, and instead praised his staff member and the senator.
“From what I know about Amy Klobuchar, Abigail certainly shares her character and intellect,” Mr. Powers said in a statement.
Dodge!
As for Ms. Bessler, it’s clear whom she’s supporting. A Klobuchar campaign spokeswoman sent two statements from Ms. Bessler.
The first statement included the phrase “Minnesota Nice” and a funny anecdote about Ms. Bessler’s early days in New York City. The second referred to the “wonderful New Yorkers that I’ve gotten to know” and eagerness “for the rest of the country to get to know” her mother.
It’s Tuesday — be nice to your colleagues; their parent may be a boss.
Dear Diary:
I took the subway home to the Upper East Side after having dinner with some friends. I got off at 86th Street.
There is a bank on one of the corners there that is immediately visible when you come up out of the station. As I got to the top step, I noticed a young woman outside the bank who was clearly struggling to use her card to unlock the doors to the A.T.M.s.
An older woman with a cane was coming out of the bank. She opened the door from the inside, and then held it so that the younger woman could come in.
Rather than thanking the older woman, the younger woman began to berate her for letting someone who might not be a customer into the bank.
The older woman smiled.
“You’re not from New York, are you?” she said.
— Wendy Katkin
New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.
We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.
