SATURDAY PUZZLE —  This is Grant Thackray’s third grid for us, and I continue to appreciate his quirkiness and extremely skillful integration of natural-sounding long entries. We didn’t have full stacks today, nor did we have much more than a sprinkle of unadulterated fill. The middle ground comprised a respectable helping of tricky words and phrases: A few of them were risky, yes, but by the end of my solve I was much more amused, in the aggregate, than at all aggravated.
So I did shake my fist a few times in the general direction of the vengeful crossword gods (up and to the right, if you were wondering). Mainly this was because I had all these fabulous guesses that were just a letter too long or too short, so many that I wondered if there could be a trick today. “World records,” “Funnel cake” and “pitchers” are a few examples of what I’m talking about.
On the other hand, a lot of the clues that stumped me entirely turned out to be edifying, which as you know is a major raison d’être for my solving puzzles at all. Some of you like to rush, which is just fine, but if I find myself looking up entries for the column and getting happily absorbed, I consider those extra minutes solving to be time well spent.
2A is a great example of this. Scheherezade was my first thought for this clue, but her name was much too short; GENIE started to emerge, and then came LAMP, but GENIE OF THE LAMP just wasn’t familiar once I had the crosses. Perhaps this is an old cultural reference that I should have known since childhood, but when I Googled it, I got this wonderful Robin Williams performance that I’d never seen before.
19A: The answer to this clue completely sneaked up on me — it makes perfect sense, but my mind still went from “kebab” (which I do not eat vertically, but something about a spit or a skewer struck me as reasonable here) to “roast,” for some reason, as more letters filled in. Proper TOAST pops up from a real toaster before it lays down, gets buttered and dolloped with some apricot jam, then usually slides off its plate and lands good side down in my house, which is physics.
31A: “Funnel cake,” which is flattish and fried, gets its name from the funnel used in its preparation to avoid splattering hot oil everywhere; I still went there when I saw this clue, after discarding “doughnut” and before coming to BUNDT CAKE. I’ve really only thought of the similarly named cake pan, which I use for a lemon angel food cake that collapses neurotically when otherwise constrained — but doing some cursory research, I think that we might get away with calling any cake we bake in a Bundt pan a BUNDT CAKE.
32A: I got this on crosses, and once BAND NAME appeared, my sensitive self cringed a little bit. IT’S A ME, MARIO? But it’s of an era; the Mario Bros. games, movies, lunchboxes, toys, pajamas and whatever else you can think of go all the way back to the early 1980s and it’s surprisingly hard to find much pushback online to the character’s broadness. This expression introduced Mario at the beginning of each game, so it’s probably etched into some solvers’ brains (not mine). The guy behind the voice is pretty unique.
14D: I know enough about romance languages in general to “get” this entry, PRIMUS, but it still instantly reminded me of this really weird band whose fans somehow constantly enter my life. For that reason, probably, I thought of BAND NAME right away at 31D.
22D: Is this what we’d call double meta? I thought “Workers making preparations to retire?” was such a clever hint for “pitchers,” who make their bacon from retiring batters, in baseball. I was wrong; the real answer plays on the same word with an even better pun — a PIT CREW earns its collective keep by retiring racecars, i.e., changing tires out for fresher tires (in less than 12 seconds).
40D: I really adored this entry, which was utterly mystifying for a good long moment before the “aha” happened. My paltry mixology knowledge didn’t include “sidecar” at all, except as a possible other meaning to “chaser.” (A little drink next to your main drink? Made sense to me.) To be honest, I think my mixology knowledge begins and ends with the 1988 Tom Cruise movie “Cocktail,” which is why ALABAMA SLAMMER gave me no trouble at all.
I solved BAR TAB on the crosses, but figured I’d find out more about this “sidecar” and apparently the name does refer to an actual motorcycle sidecar in the drink’s origin story (which of course is contested). The drink actually sounds pretty nice, a combination of cognac, cointreau and lemon, served in a sugared “coupe,” or stemmed glass with a rounded bowl.
When my last puzzle was published, I went onto the comments section of the Wordplay blog as I’m sure many new constructors do. I was pleasantly surprised at the positive responses from people — despite a few minor nitpicks, most people loved it! However, there was one woman who really seemed to hate my puzzle with a fiery passion. She insulted me directly, saying she had been doing the NYT puzzle for 60 or so years, and was disgusted by what it had turned out to be. She slammed my use of “you know it or you don’t” clues, implying I wasn’t “man” enough to include clues based solely on wordplay alone. My response to her is, I’m sorry my puzzle made you feel that way. I genuinely am. Despite all that, I’m still proud of it. I believe that The New York Times Crossword exists as a reflection of the English language — of how people speak in this day and age. I’m sorry if you wish there were more “scholarly” clues and words, with only dictionary definitions, but people in real life use slang, and they talk about movies, and they use brand names. The crossword is a reflection of the world as it is. And it’s always used clues that you either know or you don’t! I don’t know the names of obscure Czech composers or minor characters from “Leave It to Beaver.” But I’m happy to find things I don’t know, and learn them! So you don’t have to do my puzzle today, because yes, there’s another video game reference in it. There are plenty of old puzzle compilation books from decades past that are still good. But if you’re willing to give this puzzle a try, maybe you’ll learn something about the things in my world!
I am very proud of today’s puzzle. It’s seemingly become a good-luck charm of mine to put a video game clue in my puzzles (like the classic 32-Across — how can you not say it in his voice?). I’m also proud of the pun clues sprinkled throughout, and the inclusion of what I think is the funniest food (31-Across. I don’t know why). Basically, I made the grid, and the first thing my program suggested was that center circle in its entirety. I was astounded at how easy it was, and I just went from there.
Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here.
What did you think?
