(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. “I don’t want to see a shutdown. A shutdown would be a terrible thing.”
That’s President Trump, who appears to be inching toward embracing a proposed border deal. He’s also hinting that he has “options that most people don’t understand” to build his wall without Congress. Above, Mr. Trump at the White House today.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi is urging House Democrats to fall in line behind the deal, which includes $1.375 billion for border fencing — far short of Mr. Trump’s demands. Here’s how Mr. Trump’s language has shifted about the wall since his election, from who will pay for it to what it would consist of.
Also on Capitol Hill, the House voted to end U.S. military assistance for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, a move to curtail presidential war powers that, if it passes the Senate, may invite Mr. Trump’s first veto.
_____
2. It was a busy news day regarding Iran.
Our reporters, struck by the country’s two recent satellite launch failures, sought out more than a half-dozen current and former government officials who have worked on the American program to sabotage Iran’s missiles and rockets over the past dozen years. Above, Iranians visit a weaponry and military equipment exhibition in Tehran last week.
The officials revealed that the Trump administration was accelerating efforts to thwart Iran’s missiles and rockets, by covertly slipping faulty parts and materials into its aerospace supply chains. The Trump administration maintains that the Iranian space program is a cover for attempts to develop powerful ballistic missiles that could deliver nuclear warheads.
Separately, a former U.S. Air Force counterintelligence agent was charged with espionage after she defected to Iran. She is accused of helping the country’s elite Revolutionary Guards target her former U.S. colleagues.
And a suicide bomber killed 27 Islamic Revolutionary Guards in one of the deadliest attacks in Iran in years, for which the paramilitary force quickly blamed the U.S.
_____
3. New details are emerging about the exchange of “friendly fire” that killed a detective responding to a robbery in Queens, N.Y., on Tuesday.
A call came in just after dark that a man with a gun was robbing a T-Mobile store, and police officers rapidly responded, some in plainclothes. Three officers ran in to the store, but retreated when a man inside raised a pistol toward them.
Two of them were hit when seven officers outside opened fire — a total of 42 shots within 11 seconds, the police said. One died: Detective Brian Simonsen, 42, the first New York City police officer to be killed in the line of duty since July 2017.
The suspect was wounded and arrested. In a terrible twist, his gun turned out to be fake, the police said.
_____
4. Several women say Ryan Adams, the singer-songwriter and heralded music tastemaker, dangled career opportunities while pursuing them sexually. He denies it.
In interviews with The Times, seven women and more than a dozen associates described patterns of manipulative behavior. In some cases, they said, Mr. Adams retaliated when they spurned him. One was 14 years old when he began to correspond with her.
The accounts have been corroborated by family members or friends who were present at the time, as well as by correspondence from Mr. Adams reviewed by The Times.
The accusers, including Mr. Adams’s ex-wife, the actress and singer Mandy Moore, said they chose to speak out in the hopes of protecting others. “Music was a point of control for him,” Ms. Moore said.
_____
5. The Mexican crime lord known as El Chapo is awaiting sentencing on June 25.
Here’s what you need to know about the conviction of Joaquín Guzmán Loera in New York on Tuesday, and what lies ahead for him. We won’t know until sentencing, but it’s probable that Mr. Guzmán will be sent to the United States Penitentiary Administrative Maximum Facility in Florence, Colo., above, more commonly known as the ADX.
But Alan Feuer, the Times reporter who covered the three-month trial, notes that drugs are still flowing from Mexico, and Mr. Guzmán’s Sinaloa cartel remains intact. Federal officials regard it as a major threat, with “the most expansive footprint in the United States” of any of the cartels.
_____
6. A year ago Thursday, a former student opened fired and killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.
In a series of interviews, nine members of the school’s community — students, parents, police officers, teachers — reflected on the past 12 months.
Anthony Borges, 16, took five bullets to protect his classmates. He had wanted to be a professional soccer player. “Now I don’t do anything,” he said.
The Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they did, and didn’t, change America’s response to mass shootings.
In an OpEd, a student at Stoneman Douglas asks, “Would Congress care more if Parkland had been a plane crash?”
_____
7. Warmer days ahead: Pitchers and catchers reported for spring training today for most of Major League Baseball’s 30 teams. (Mark your calendar: Spring itself arrives March 20.) Above, Cincinnati Reds pitchers work on agility drills today in Goodyear, Ariz.
By the middle of next week, position players will join them — without a few well-known faces, including Bryce Harper, formerly of the Washington Nationals, and Manny Machado, most recently of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Here are 10 M.L.B. story lines to ponder for the season ahead.
No clue who we’re talking about? Sports Reference may be able to fill you in. The network of sports data websites was started by a Ph.D. candidate who needed a distraction. Last year they generated a billion page views.
_____
8. In what might be a Times first, we have an obituary for a robot.
NASA’s Opportunity, the longest-lived robot ever sent from Earth to the surface of another planet, is dead. Designed to last just a few months, the rover roamed for over 14 years, snapping pictures of a strange landscape that revealed glimpses into Mars’s distant past.
The cause of death: a giant dust storm last summer that either encrusted the robot’s solar panels or damaged some crucial electronic component. On Tuesday night, NASA made one last call to Opportunity. There was no answer. Above, NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine announcing the conclusion of the rover’s mission today.
_____
9. Having more people of color onscreen is a trending idea in Hollywood. But there are only a few dozen black film and television representatives, out of hundreds, at the big four talent agencies.
We talked to seven of them about the isolation and other barriers they face, and the changes they are beginning to see. Above from left, Lorrie Bartlett of ICM Partners; Brandon Lawrence of Creative Artists Agency; and J.B. Fitzgerald of United Talent Agency.
“I personally make it a priority to represent talent of color, but I don’t necessarily only represent talent of color,” said Mr. Lawrence. “I do lean in toward people who, like me, didn’t have the opportunities to be heard and have their voices expressed.”
We also looked at an important advocate for fine artists of color: the music producer Swizz Beatz, who became a crucial connector while amassing his own collection of paintings.
_____
10. Finally, we end with a mixed bag of love.
For those trying to avoid Valentine’s Day on Thursday (or feel as if you’ve kissed too many frogs), these books might provide some escape.
But for those of you looking to bask in the celebrations, we took a walk down an aisle where clothing is optional.
There are 31,000 registered nudists in the U.S. Sometimes they get married. Sometimes the bride isn’t the one blushing.
Have a demure night.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
