PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Jacob deGrom was the best in the world at his job last season. For that, the Mets gave him a raise of almost $10 million.
That is basically what they had to do, considering his rights to salary arbitration. But they have done nothing more for deGrom.
“I would like to be part of this team’s future,” he said on Thursday, after the first official spring training workout for the Mets’ pitchers and catchers. “I would like the feeling to be mutual. That’s just something that we’re going to have to see.”
On a day usually brimming with optimism, this was a blue note — as in Harold Melvin’s band from the 1970s, the one that sang, “If You Don’t Know Me by Now.” The Mets pledge affinity for deGrom, whom they drafted in 2010. But they still haven’t offered him a contract beyond the $17 million he will make this season.
If the Mets don’t know deGrom by now, what have they been watching the last five seasons? After a Rookie of the Year Award, a run to the World Series and a Cy Young Award, they should have all the data they need to put a dollar figure on his future in Flushing.
“Everybody knows that Jacob deGrom is great,” General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen said. “Everybody knows that Jacob deGrom deserves to be handsomely rewarded for his performance. We need to make sure that the contract or what we’re willing to do is something that he’s willing to do.”
The Mets control deGrom’s rights through 2020. At the All-Star Game last July, when Van Wagenen was deGrom’s agent, he tried to use the leverage of his client’s performance to extract a long-term deal. If the Mets did not extend him, Van Wagenen said then, they might as well trade him.
The Mets did neither of those things, of course, and deGrom finished off a season so remarkable — with a 1.70 E.R.A. and 269 strikeouts — that Manager Mickey Callaway was still gushing about it on Thursday. “We’re probably never going to see anything like it again in our lifetimes,” he said.
Indeed, even if deGrom regresses a bit this season, he still should be one of the top five pitchers in the majors. He turns 31 in June, but plenty of other pitchers are still providing value on nine-figure contracts well into their 30s — Zack Greinke (35), Cole Hamels (35), Jon Lester (35), David Price (33), Max Scherzer (34) and Justin Verlander (35).
If the Mets wanted a bargain, they should have bet on deGrom a few years ago, before he won the Cy Young. (Metaphor alert: The award itself was damaged during shipping, and the Mets are sending it back for repairs.) There will be no discount now, and deGrom has said he will not negotiate during the season.
Yet deGrom surely realizes his leverage is limited. The trade talk last summer, he said on Thursday, was intended to “get something moving,” but nothing moved. DeGrom could still wait for free agency to shop himself around, but owners have largely turned off the cash spigot the open market used to represent.
“How it’s going is kind of crazy,” deGrom said. “Guys are still without jobs. Teams don’t seem to be signing free agents. Why? We don’t know. I guess you kind of look at that, but I think just wanting to be here is the main thing for me and my group.”
DeGrom stayed with Van Wagenen’s group, the Creative Artists Agency, which has not been shy about criticizing the changing marketplace. Van Wagenen threatened a spring training boycott last winter, and Jeff Berry — the co-head for baseball at C.A.A., and now deGrom’s lead agent — released a detailed memo in December listing several forms of possible protest for disgruntled players.
Berry even suggested that the union fund a study for players who had not yet reached free agency — “a reverse engineering of the aging curves and usage rates that teams are currently weaponizing against the players.” The obvious implication, for pitchers, is that preserving themselves in their early seasons could make them more valuable as free agents.
DeGrom worked 217 innings last season, second in the majors to Scherzer. Asked on Thursday about potentially cutting back his workload without a contract extension, he did not exactly dismiss the idea, saying he would have to mull it over with his representatives.
“I’m going to have to sit down with them and really see what they think is best for me moving forward,” he said.
That would seem to put him in a tough spot, balancing his long-term personal goals with the team’s goals in 2019.
“Yeah, definitely,” deGrom conceded. “You play this game because you love it, and then you have an opportunity to look out for your family and your future. You have to see what’s right for you to do. I think that’s a discussion that’s going to have to be had with my agents.”
With his agents, he said — not with Callaway or the Mets’ coaching staff. DeGrom maintains a good relationship with Van Wagenen, but he — like all general managers — is building the team with someone else’s money. Fred Wilpon, the owner, has not yet authorized an offer.
“Offers in contract negotiations can be complicated processes,” Van Wagenen said. “It needs to have analysis done on the player side; it needs to have analysis done on the club side.”
What more analysis could they possibly have to do? If the Mets don’t know their ace by now, something is wrong.
