Happy 2019 and welcome back to Current Events Conversation!
Thank you to classes from Beverly, Mass., Danvers, Mass., Hoggard High School and Silverton, Ore., for getting us off to a strong start this year with excellent comments on living without a phone, making career choices, facing rejection and more.
To kick off the new year, in addition to our most popular writing prompts of the week, we’re also including a special bonus look at student predictions for 2019. We had so much fun reading them that we couldn’t not share them here.
And though we usually only highlight comments from our writing prompts in this feature, this week we also want to acknowledge a class from Massachusetts, who left especially thoughtful responses to our Article of the Day, “Learning With: ‘Heroin Addiction Explained: How Opioids Hijack the Brain.’” As a student named Ilana wrote, “I’ve been told time and time again that opioids are highly addictive. But, that is the only thing I’ve been told, leaving the crisis of addiction to seem non-applicable to me. I never understood why anyone would take them in the first place but this article shed on light on the ‘euphoric first time’ [and] helps me understand the driving of force of their addiction.”
Finally, welcome to new classes from Stevens Point, Wis., and Warsaw, Poland. We’re so glad to have you.
Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted.
__________
At the beginning of every new year, we ask students to make predictions about the year ahead. What do they think will happen nationally, globally or locally? What’s in store for technology, sports, culture, food, economics and politics? What do they have to look forward to in their own lives?
Only 10 students so far have told us what they think 2019 will hold, but we enjoyed both the range and the specificity so much we’re quoting much of what we got. How many of these do you agree with?
2019, according to teenagers
donald trump will be impeached kansas city chiefs will win the super bowl 5G wifi is goint to be awesome fortnite will die off the mc rib with an extra rib will come back
— Lucas, united states
… This years Stanley Cup final will consist of the Tampa Bay Lightning defeating the Nashville Predators in 6 games.
— Calvin Mansfield, Danvers, Mass.
2019 will much like 2018, with the same sort of soap opera-esque drama present in 2018. Why should it be any different? The same officials are in the same offices that they had been and since there are no upcoming elections, they have no incentive to change anything.
— Jake Hession, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.
I predict in 2019 the fate of Trump’s border wall will be decided, there will be a lot of partisanship within Congress, there will be the beginning of another loud election cycle(weird that is has been almost 4 years since I read that Donald Trump was running for president), Chinese smartphone companies will overtake Apple, Pewdiepie will be overtaken by T-series (he dodged a bullet, but still has it coming), Avengers 4 will be a good movie, but it will prove difficult to live up to the giant hype, Kendrick Lamar will release another great album, Terminator 6 is either going to be a major letdown or it will re-vitialize the franchise(either way it is going to be under a lot of pressure, the president in Brazil is going to persecute whoever he wants, while I doubt that country is going to get safer(maybe I’ll be wrong), and much much more.
— Gregory A., NY
I think 2019 will be a year of major technological achievements. I think that electronic-based learning will become more dominate in schools, expanding children’s knowledge of technology. I think our society will plunge deeper into mainstream social media, disconnecting younger generations from physical connections with other people. I’m hoping the U.N. will take some major strides to help the refugees displaced due to the raging war in Syria. After recently watching a documentary on it, you can really see how in need these people are and how little attention they get. I believe that more countries around the world will raise awareness to the rising problem in our world’s oceans. I believe that there will be more advances made in the productivity in driverless cars, and in faster, easier transportation.
I hope there will be more empathy and understanding of other people’s pain, and that 2019 will be a good year for all.
— Sophie Riley, Beverly, Mass.
Kanye West shall seize power of the US government through a military coup and establish a dictatorship under the tr7e god Kanye West.
— Alvin Flang, Idk
Weed will be legalilized in more states. Trump will do something dumb. People will still play fortnite. Something will happen with the U.S., North Korea, Russia and Saudi Arabia. Gas prices will go up. A lot of people will die. Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson will run for pres. Imma get a car and crash it.
— dakota, michigan
__________
In “In Search of Lost Screen Time,” Paul Greenberg writes that, in 2018, Americans who owned mobile devices spent a total of $1,380 and 1,460 hours on them. He wonders, if we were to forgo our smartphones in 2019, what else could we do with that money and time?
We posed the question to students: Would they go a year without their phones? Could they? Commenters estimated that they spent anywhere from 30 minutes to 7 hours on their phones each day. Some said they would gladly give up staring at their screens all the time. Others, though, weren’t so sure it could be done.
My phone is part of my life
I honestly could not go a year without my smartphone, even though I wish I could. I hate my phone and what it does to my work ethic. It causes way too many distractions, causing me to either not do my work or forget about it …
A main reason I could not go without my phone is because of communication. My parents like to use an app called Life360 that tracks where I am, so I need my phone with me at all times.I would be fine without social media, it would be good for all of us, but it is one of the only ways I keep track of my friends that go to different schools, make new friends, and make plans.
Homework is also why I could not go without my phone for a year. Sometimes I don’t always have my laptop with me, and so I do my work on my phone. I watch the videos we have to watch for math on my phone rather than on my laptop because I find that I pay attention better since my phone isn’t sitting off to the side.I believe no one in todays time could go without their phone for a year because now, smartphones are apart of everyone’s lives, jobs, schools, and parents all have apps for everything.
— Evan Barefoot, Hoggard High School
On the average I spend about 7 hours a day on my phone, I will text friends, play games and check my social media. Could I go a year without my phone? No, not at all. I wouldn’t know what’s going on, i wont be able to text my friends. My phone is what i use to talk to people because its hard for me to talk to someone about my feelings face to face. When I want to hangout with my friends i use my phone, when I’m done doing my chores I go on my phone, I use my phone for music on the bus, when i’m playing my PS3, when i’m doing the dishes, and many more stuff. My phone is part of my life.
— Kiara2019, Silverton
I should spend less time on my phone, but …
Personally I’d say I spend about 1-2 hours on my phone everyday. The majority of the time spent on my phone is on Social Media and Music apps. I think if I wasn’t exposed to social media, and had another was of listening to music, I could go a year without a smartphone …I do think this article persuades me to give up my phone for a year because it showed me all the good I could do for myself and the world. The best examples given were the plant, purify, save, and heal. If I didn’t have a smartphone for a year, I would probably spend most of my time reading and growing my knowledge to do better in school and in life and going on adventures around the world.
— Krystian30, Silverton
The benefits that my phone has on my life is that I can easily get in touch with my friends and I can keep up with what’s going on with the world and other peoples life’s. Yes I think my phone does have a negative impact on my life. I am a very stressful person and I have heard that your stress levels go up when you use your smartphone. Also no amount of light hitting your eyeballs 1 foot away is good for eyes or your brain. I also tend to get really bad headaches from looking at my phone took much and that’s a major problem. Lastly I love my phone and the connection I can get with my friends over it, but I do think I need to spend less time on my phone and enjoy another persons company.
— leialoha, silverton23
I spend lots of time on my phone. On average maybe 30-40 hours per week. I am trying to cut down on the usage because I know I have more important stuff to do then just staring at my phone. When I heard what we could do to change this, I knew I needed to follow these …
The benefits to not having a phone, (from my experience) is that you are in a better mood. You do more stuff with people and do more things that are active and healthy for you. I think it’s good to drop your phone once in a while to be more open. Open to the world, open to more activities. You are happier when not staring at your phone, and you are more talkative to a person. I think in general we should drop our phones for a week, and just experiment with the fun.
— Madison2019, Silverton
A year without a phone? I could do it.
The benefits my phone has for my life is that I can stay connected with a lot of my peers around Oregon or my friends at my school. My phone keeps me entertained and helps me contact anyone at any time if its crucial or really important, it also keeps me in reach with my parents so that they know where I am at all times.
But, the negative affects my phone has in my life is that it draws my attention so that whenever I have homework or something really important to do I don’t do it because I’m so focused on my phone. I make excuses that I don’t have time, but usually I roughly have 2 hours of free time to get all my homework done but instead I just go on my phone. Also, I do many sports and I always use the excuse that school is to hard or that sports are making it difficult but it really is just me choosing that my phone is more important than my education.
So, yes I do think that I could go a year without my cellphone and that it would benefit me to get all the things I need to get done so that I can be successful as I get higher and higher at school.
— Melia, Silverton23
I probably could go a year without my smartphone because I don’t use it that much. It benefits me because if my parents need to contact me or I want to reach my friend, I can with the smartphone. The disadvantages with it are mainly that I don’t pay attention to my surroundings when focused on the screen … If I were to spend a year without my phone I wouldn’t really miss it, considering most of my electronics time is spent on my laptop or console, rather then my phone. If I didn’t spend any time on electronics however I would probably spend more time with family.
— Clayton, Silverton
I only spend around 30 minutes on my phone on a daily basis so most of the things said in the article don’t really matter as much to me …I could go a year without my phone because i don’t really use it for anything but texting and if i needed i could just talk to people in person. If i didn’t have a phone i guess the positive side would be that i wouldn’t be tempted to look at a screen constantly.
— ashton, silverton23
__________
In “Does It Pay to Be a Writer?” Concepción de León reports that professional writing pays far less than it used to — barring many aspiring writers from pursuing their dream job. This sad news inspired us to ask students how important money is in their own career aspirations.
The question revealed a deep philosophical split in teenage opinion: while some consider choosing a career just for the money to be a “death sentence,” others felt that blindly pursuing one’s passion was “no longer a viable life plan” in today’s economy. Many, however, are planning ahead to try to have it all — a career they love that also earns enough to pay the bills.
Get real and choose a career that earns a reasonable wage
“Do what you love” is cute advice for after school activities and hobbies, but when it comes to finding a job, especially in today’s economy where real estate prices and the cost of college is getting significantly higher, it becomes necessary to sacrifice a dream job (like being an author) to something with steady pay, even if you do not enjoy it as much.
— Julie Kee, Danvers, Mass.
While I personally revel in the practice of writing, I bar myself from entering a career as an author or journalist simply because it is no longer particularly financially lucrative as the Amazon business leviathan consolidates its hold over the publishing industry, and the influence of institutions such as newspapers and magazines wanes, a process detailed in Concepción de León’s article, “Does it Pay to Be a Writer?” In short, careers in creative spheres are no longer a viable life plan. While it is possible to achieve success, the probability of gaining true economic stability is dwindling.
— Jake Hession, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.
Our modern marketplace makes it very difficult to pursue certain careers, and insight like “just do what you love” teaches nothing but how out of touch a lot of us still are about these issues.
— Vanessa Ellis, Danvers, Mass.
I would not choose to go in a career if it did not pay well, no matter how much I was interested in it. Ultimately, the most efficient way to promote physical and mental well being is to have money - not in abundance, but a liveable salary is something hard to live without. I feel like the hassle of playing catch-up with bills, payments, etc., would spoil the fun of the interest anyways, since it attracts so many hardships. When thinking about a career, the advice I would give is to think practically. Career advice typically includes something around “following your passion” or your interests. But, interests change drastically through time.
— Emily Whalen, Massachusetts
Do what you love
A job should not just be for a source of income. Your career should give you a sense of fulfillment in what you are doing for the world. I know what I want to do and I am willing to put in my everything to get there. Are you willing?
— Madison Kelley, Danvers, Mass.
In today’s world, not many adults really enjoy their occupation as a part of their “lifestyle” or even “hobbie”. Most of the time, these people are seen walking around miserably on the weekdays, as they are solely focused on reaching the weekend.
However, making not a lot of money comes with sacrifices. I would not be able to live as luxuriously as maybe preferred. I might not be able to have my dream car, or dream house, or dream vacations. Nevertheless, all of these things bought with large amounts of money can only take you so far in life. A “dream” car can take you all the same places a mediocre car could, and a “dream” house is the same four walls and a roof that a mediocre house could provide. Also, a “dream” vacation only lasts for so long, until you must return home. My goal is to have my weekdays be as enjoyable as my weekends because we only live for so long. If that means not making a huge amount of money, so be it.
— Gabriela Ferullo, Danvers, Mass.
You don’t need money to be happy in life, you just need to do something that makes you happy. That’s why people work lower-paying careers despite having opportunity to easily make more money. Teachers are another prime example. No one would become a high school teacher based on the amount of money they’re going to make, yet there are still enough people who want to be teachers in the world that schools can actually function. This is because people want to be teachers because they’re passionate about teaching. If I were offered two jobs—a job that I would love to do for low pay, and a job that I would absolutely hate for higher pay—I would take the former.
— Jack Murray, Danvers, Mass.
Waking up everyday to go to an average 9-5 job that I hate would be a death sentence. I’m only 17 years old, and I am a junior in high school. I really haven’t thought about money much in my life, so maybe its a little premature to say that I do not care about it much. However as I sit here an right this, I want to do what I love, and love what I do.
— Tom Walfield, Danvers, Mass.
I would rather live in a little hut on the water with only what I needed to live, go to work everyday that is something I love to do, and then go back to my little hut and surf.
— Dan Rossitto, Danvers, Mass.
I look at people who sit behind desks from 8-6, five days a week, counting other people’s money, or creating advertisements, looking at a computer screen all day long. And some of them are happy, and like their job. But if I were offered a job like that, even if it were for triple my original salary, I would have to turn it down. We sit behind desks for sixteen or so years, why would anyone want to do that for the rest of their lives.If I’m not doing something I love, I don’t try as hard.
— Madeline Butler, Danvers, Mass.
Can’t you have both?
In my family, my single mother used to search endlessly for a job to provide for my sibling and I. Her current job wasn’t what she attended university for, but it would be enough for our home and necessities. Looking back at those times, I hope to find a career I love, but within reason. I have a wider scope of understanding that money needs to be made, but I have hopes that the field of journalism is still alive by the time I graduate. I fully intend to pursue what I love and is interesting to me: journalism. By reading this article I am faced with the reality that not everyone makes it into The New York Times or uncovers a scandal like the Spotlight team in 2001. There is still hope that I can write about the major stories of our society and support myself and a future family.
— Grace Donahue, Danvers, Mass.
I hope to go to college to become a pediatric nurse. The salary of this job was an important part in deciding this career choice. Working with children is something I am passionate about, but the nursing field was chosen based on the salary. I want to be able to support myself and my potential family without struggle.
— Casey Masterson, Danvers, Mass.
Ever since I first started thinking about what I wanted my job to be when I get out of college, it was always a mixture between what I want to do and how much I get paid for doing it.
From an early age I’ve wanted to go into the medical field and as I got older my sights have been more focused on physical therapy. I knew that I wanted to be able to help people one way or another and physical therapy had seemed like the perfect fit for me. I want to be able to have a sustainable life while also being able to enjoy it at the same time. Overall, I don’t really think that there is a perfect job out there, but I do think that if you choose something that you’re good at, enjoy doing, and has a good salary that’s fit for you, then you’ll be able to lead a good and happy life.
— Kathleen Dawe, Massachusetts
__________
In our most popular Picture Prompt of the week, “Facing Rejection,” we asked students to look at the illustration above and reflect on a time they were rejected or failed at something they had worked hard for. How did they handle it? Like the person in the picture? Or with a little more frustration?
They told us stories of heartbreak, humiliation and, ultimately, resilience. Read on to see what advice they have for their future selves and others on how to deal with rejection.
Turn failure into fuel
When I was ten years old I fell in love with soccer. I worked hard and would look forward to every practice. When I was ten though, during tryouts the top ten girls would make an early travel team. This of course, became my big goal. I went to all three days and worked very hard, yet there was some girls who only showed up to two, one, and some who didn’t even go. The coaches in the end, picked them. I was the eleventh pick. When my father told me this the day after thanksgiving I was heartbroken. I had worked so hard and tried my best, how could girls who didn’t even come to tryouts get in, and not me?
This was when I learned just how strong rejection can make you. I ended up working even harder the next few years to prove that I should not have been the eleventh pick … Getting rejected when I was young helped me become determined and pushed me to be a better player, a leader, and a better person. To my future self, turn the negative into fuel to do good things and become better. Do not beat yourself up if you don’t have your best race, or your best test. Prove to others and to yourself that you are better than what others may believe.
— Gabrielle Sherrick, Danvers, Mass.
I have faced rejection before. I was a little league baseball player when I was younger and wanted to really badly make the all star team. Sadly, I wasn’t accepted to the team and I grew angry because I thought that I was going to make the team for sure. It turns out that this rejection made me realize that hard work and dedication is what you need to put into something that you love to be good at it.
A piece of advice that I would give somebody because of this would be If you think you are the best you could be then push yourself even harder because you can be better than you are already are it will just take commitment. I have told myself many times when I feel like I reached my max potential that I just feel like this, but I could still push myself harder and make it so I am even better than I thought I could be. It changed the way I look at things and how I act in my life.
— Jacob Stone, United States
Don’t take it personally
As an aspiring actress, I have learned that rejection is a part of life. I have been rejected from theaters so many times that it is hard to count at this point, but I feel as if that has built me up to the person I am. When I was younger, I would respond to rejection by going up to my room, locking the door, and just crying for hours straight. I really just wanted to give up. At that age, you truly almost can’t control it. Even when I wasn’t auditioning, I would still go through these phases when I just felt hopeless …
For me, trying to look at what I can improve on helps, but even so, there are so many factors that go into casting. From not being the right height to not having the right vocal range, so many things that go into it, and for me, learning to not take it personally is one of the most important things anyone can learn.
— Sophia Buonanduci, Beverly, Mass.
As a kid who plays three sports, I’ve been told no and been criticized a lot in my life. When I was younger I was always offended by the answer “no” and I saw it as a sign of negativity. I did and still do hold very high standards for myself. The only thing that’s changed is how I take the criticism, whether or not it’s delivered nicely with a warm and cozy feeling.
When I get the answer “no”, get criticized, or get a bad grade, I look back on the test I failed or the moment on the field in which I messed up and I do some self reflection. I try to first identify the problem then decide how I can work on and fix that problem. As a matter of fact, now that I know how to take criticizm and no for an answer, I like to have friends and coaches who criticize me more so that I can continue endlessly working and self improving.
— Ian, Beverly, Mass.
Learn to move on
This situation may not seem like much, but I recall when I was about 8 years old, I had a Lego set that I got for Christmas. It was a star wars set that I had to build by following the instructions, and every time that I got to this one step, the whole thing would fall apart. It was really frustrating going through this process over and over again just to fail repeatedly. Obviously, being only 8 years old, I did not take this well, I would get angry and maybe even throw some of the pieces across the room.
Looking back on it now, I can see that it was silly to be upset over Legos. But I think I did learn how to control my anger, after all of these failures, I started to ease into getting less and less frustrated …I was able to understand that if you get too frustrated from failure, you will never succeed. For the next time I face rejection, I would tell my future self to pull it together, not to get upset, and move on from that rejection so it doesn’t stick with you and drag you down.
— Dillon McDermott, Danvers, Mass.
