PHOENIX — The original owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, Bud Selig, has always insisted his team lost the 1982 World Series because of an injury to the Hall of Fame closer Rollie Fingers. All these years later, well past Selig’s long tenure as commissioner, it remains the only World Series appearance in franchise history.
Last fall, the Brewers came as close to returning as they ever have: Game 7 of the National League Championship Series, which they lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers. They made sure to pack the bullpen that time: The Brewers had three star closers on their roster, and their starters were only a small fraction of their strategy.
It was a radical way to reimagine pitching, a bold experiment making its October debut. The Brewers used their bullpen for nearly two-thirds of their postseason innings — 60⅓ of 93⅔ — and in half of their games, the starter was gone after three.
In such limited duty, the starters’ earned run average was a sparkling 1.62, a testament to the power of manipulation and the Brewers’ refusal to let a starter cost them a game.
“Last year, our motto as a pitching staff was ‘Any guy, any time,’” said Corbin Burnes, a rookie reliever then. He added: “We knew what our role was as a pitching staff and we stuck to it, and it got us one game away.”
Burnes is auditioning for a starting role now, just like Freddy Peralta and Brandon Woodruff, who also pitched mostly in relief as rookies last October. That trio helped set up another: Josh Hader, Jeremy Jeffress and Corey Knebel.
Hader, Jeffress and Knebel formed a postmodern mash-up of Randy Johnson, J.R. Richard and Nolan Ryan: Together, they fanned 320 batters in just 213⅓ innings. They have all been All-Stars within the last two years, and Manager Craig Counsell has taught them to be ready for anything.
“Every out is one of the most important outs of the game,” Knebel said. “Every inning is a save situation, and that’s the way Counsell teaches it.”
Still, Counsell knows he cannot manage from April through August the way he did in September (with expanded rosters) and October (with regular off-days). Even so, no Brewer has thrown a complete game since Jimmy Nelson in June 2017 or worked 200 innings in a season since Yovani Gallardo in 2012.
“Great starting pitchers are still the manager’s best friend,” said Counsell, though he added that his job is simply to find the best way to get 27 outs. “It’s your personnel: Who are your players and what are they good at? How do they connect to each other?”
The Brewers’ only other playoff teams since 1982 included former Cy Young Award winners they had rented through trades: C. C. Sabathia in 2008 and Zack Greinke in 2011. Last year’s ace, Jhoulys Chacin, joined Milwaukee in the off-season on a bargain contract (two years, $15.5 million), and thrived by following the Brewers’ suggestion to throw more sliders. Chacin, who was 15-8, was the only Brewer to work the required 162 innings to qualify for the E.R.A. title.
In relying mostly on Chacin and the now-departed Wade Miley as postseason starters — Miley faced just one batter as a decoy in Game 5 against the Dodgers — Counsell bypassed some mainstays who helped the Brewers get there. Chase Anderson, Zach Davies and Junior Guerra combined for 141 starts the last two seasons but were afterthoughts in the playoffs.
“I tried to be the best teammate I could, but I knew I wasn’t going to be on the roster,” said Anderson, who was 9-8 with a 3.93 E.R.A. “I’m more of an optimistic person than a pessimistic person, that’s my personality, but when you get down to it, I wanted to be out there as much as anybody.
“Being here since 2016, seeing that rebuilding process expedited faster than people thought — yeah, it was hard.”
Anderson revamped his mechanics over the winter and studied videos of Mike Mussina, the Hall of Fame right-hander whose precision and creativity he admires. He is competing with Davies, Burnes, Peralta, Woodruff and the former Cleveland right-hander Josh Tomlin for rotation spots behind Chacin, with Nelson a bit behind as he recovers from a shoulder injury.
Davies, a former 17-game winner, said his goal was to work 200 innings. That number remains a point of pride for starters, but very few get to do it any more: Just 13 pitchers reached 200 innings last season, down from 45 in 2010. Teams like the Brewers, the Oakland Athletics and especially the Tampa Bay Rays — with their opener strategy — want quality over quantity from starters.
“As an industry, we’ve learned it’s really tough to consistently pitch seven, eight, nine innings effectively, so the rope is unquestionably shorter,” Brewers General Manager David Stearns said. “Having said that, every organization is looking for multiple pitchers who can do that, and every organization will give a guy a chance if he shows that ability.
“I mean, the Rays have been the most aggressive in the opener paradigm, and they still have Blake Snell — and every organization, I would imagine, would love to have Blake Snell and would use his skill set to the max.”
The Brewers hope to find an ace like Snell — the American League Cy Young Award winner — among Burnes, Peralta or Woodruff, who combined for a 2.60 E.R.A. in the N.L.C.S., with 29 strikeouts in 17⅓ innings. Starters use a wider array of pitches than relievers, though, so it is fair to ask if those three can be quite as dominant in the rotation.
“That’s the question that we have to answer,” Counsell said. “But it’s their time to do it, and we’re always going to need players at that stage of their careers to take the next step.”
This is the 50th season for the Brewers in Milwaukee, and they still have not taken that final step. As they try to do it, they will continue to seek creative ways to get outs.
“It kind of challenges your thinking,” Counsell said, “and you end up finding better answers.”
