Below, the February 2019 edition of Teenagers in The Times. This roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com appears on the first Thursday of each month during the school year.
For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition.
_________
Education
Schools in England Introduce a New Subject: Mindfulness
As mental health problems among children increase, the government will try having students practice mindfulness, relaxation and breathing exercises.
Why Girls Beat Boys at School and Lose to Them at the Office
Hard work and discipline help girls outperform boys in class, but that advantage disappears in the work force. Is school the problem?
A New Model to Stop the Next School Shooting
“I’m a psychiatrist, but I’m also a parent. Where do my loyalties lie?,” asks this Opinion essay writer.
Parkland Shooting: Where Gun Control and School Safety Stand Today
The Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings.
Parkland: A Year After the School Shooting That Was Supposed to Change Everything
Those at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School knew their lives would be transformed by the massacre. Many had no idea of the many ways that would happen.
Parkland’s Day of Remembrance: Moments of Silence, Reflection and Grief
On a day nobody wanted to remember — or forget — Parkland students were observing a day of mourning for the 17 lives lost a year ago.
Building Bots and Confidence
With Deilab, students get hands-on lessons in science, technology, engineering, art and math, and they learn about resilience.
Women Sue Yale Over a Fraternity Culture They Say Enables Harassment
In a class-action lawsuit, three women claim Yale has fostered an environment where alcohol-fueled gatherings at fraternity houses dictate the undergraduate social scene.
Racist? Fair? Biased? Asian-American Alumni Debate Elite High School Admissions
When it comes to integration at New York City’s most competitive high schools, Asian-American alumni have many different reactions.
I’m Not Here to Answer Your Black History Month Questions
The burden of explaining black history often falls on black students. That’s not fair.
How Much Wealthier Are White School Districts Than Nonwhite Ones? $23 Billion, Report Says
The report took aim at school district borders, which it said wall off wealthier communities and, crucially, the money their property taxes raise.
Going to College Should Not Be a Financial Albatross
“Our country has most of the best colleges in the world. Students should be able to afford them, and borrowers should not be crushed by debts,” states this Opinion essay.
Colleges Expand Their Reach to Address Mental Health Issues
As they struggle to keep up with the demand, many schools are hiring more staff members and trying new approaches.
One Way to Make College Meaningful
“Don’t find yourself; find a vocation,” says this writer.
The Two Codes Your Kids Need to Know
The College Board came up with a surprising conclusion about keys to success for college and life.
_________
Civics, Politics, Economics and Business
‘I Am Now Your Mom’: On Twitter, a Pledge of Support for L.G.B.T. Youths
A California woman reached out to L.G.B.T. youths on Twitter, volunteering to be their mom, and an entire tribe of strangers showed up for family duty.
Students Skip School Across Europe to Demand Climate Action
In cities including Berlin, London and Paris, young protesters took to the streets to urge their leaders to combat climate change.
Becoming Greta: ‘Invisible Girl’ to Global Climate Activist, With Bumps Along the Way
A Swedish girl’s solitary act of civil disobedience has turned her into a symbol for climate action. But her path hasn’t been easy.
Sierra Leone Declares National Emergency Over Rape of Young Girls
President Julius Maada Bio said a majority of the victims were under 15, and announced measures to combat sexual violence.
Family of Shamima Begum, ISIS Teenager, Says Britain Plans to Revoke Her Citizenship
Ms. Begum’s family said it was “very disappointed with the Home Office’s intention to have an order made depriving Shamima of her citizenship.”
Shamima Begum, British Woman Who Joined ISIS in Syria, Wants to Come Home
Ms. Begum, 19, who says she is nine months pregnant, faces an uncertain future, with no clear answers about whether Britain would try to prosecute her.
A Locked Door, a Fire and 41 Girls Killed as Police Stood By
Guatemalan officers stood by for nine minutes as the fire raged at a government-run home. It was the culmination of a long history of abuse.
14 Children Died in the Parkland Shooting. Nearly 1,200 Have Died From Guns Since.
For the project “Since Parkland,” teenage journalists wrote profiles for every child killed by gun violence in the year since the Florida school shooting.
A ‘Dreamer’ Goes to Washington
Thursday: We talked to an undocumented Cal State Fullerton student about her trip to the State of the Union.
‘It Has Stuck With Me 35 Years’: 11 Childhood Memories of Blackface and Other Racist Incidents
Readers reveal racist behavior they committed or witnessed as children and reflect on how it affects them today.
Virginia’s First Lady Apologizes for Handing Cotton to Black Students on Tour
Pam Northam handed raw cotton to children touring the governor’s mansion and asked them to imagine being enslaved and having to pick the crop.
Beyond College Campuses and Public Scandals, a Racist Tradition Lingers
Blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions, has persisted in fraternity houses and private clubs, occasionally exploding into public view.
Covington Students ‘Did Not Instigate’ Lincoln Memorial Encounter, Bishop Says
A report from a detective agency offered a detailed account of what happened between students from a Catholic high school and a Native American man.
Why Does Obama Scold Black Boys?
“The former president still can’t see the beautiful and complex range of black culture,” according to this Opinion essay writer.
Thousands of Immigrant Children Said They Were Sexually Abused in U.S. Detention Centers, Report Says
There were 4,556 allegations in four years, including a rise in complaints during the Trump administration’s family separation policy.
High School Students Are Blanketing My Block in Litter
Getting teenagers to clean up after themselves isn’t easy. You might just have to talk to them.
_________
Science, Health, Technology and Sports
France, Reaching Out to Youth, Takes Its Great Debate to Twitch
Ten top government officials joined live discussions on Twitch, a platform best known for showing people playing video games.
Instagram Bans Graphic Images of Self-Harm After Teenager’s Suicide
Instagram and its parent company, Facebook, will no longer allow images of cutting and will make nongraphic photos of self-harm, such as healed scars, more difficult to find.
Teenagers Say Depression and Anxiety Are Major Issues Among Their Peers
A Pew Research Center survey found that teenagers across all demographic groups grapple with mental health issues.
Screen Use at Bedtime May Impair Children’s Quality of Life
Using screens in a dark room was associated with worse sleep outcomes than using them with the lights on.
Why Are We Still Dismissing Girls’ Pain?
This Opinion essay states, “People continue to struggle with the idea that women are the authorities on their own bodies.”
E-Cigarettes and Youths
New York City health officials warn of the dangers.
Let Children Get Bored Again
Boredom teaches us that life isn’t a parade of amusements. More important, it spawns creativity and self-sufficiency.
Girls Get Tech. They Just Need Others to Believe It.
New research explores how access to technology helps put girls on par with boys.
New Jersey Unveils New Limits on High School Football Practices
Players will be limited to 15 minutes of full-contact practice each week under new rules that state officials called the toughest in the country.
How a Ballet Dancer Brought Balance to U.C.L.A. Gymnastics
Valorie Kondos Field, known to many as Miss Val, has created something of an oasis in a sport often characterized by intense turbulence.
At Wisconsin High School, Accusations of Body Shaming at a Cheerleading Banquet
Members of a high school cheerleading squad received awards mocking their breasts, backsides and weight, prompting complaints from parents and a warning letter from the A.C.L.U.
Dorm Fire Kills 10 Young Players in Brazil, Sending Shudder Through Soccer World
The blaze broke out in the early morning at a training center in Rio de Janeiro for teenage players at Flamengo, one of the most famous clubs.
The Helicopter Parent Descends on College Football
In the era of what some academics call “we-parenting,” is it any wonder that parents also suit up in full football uniforms for signing day?
_________
Arts, Media and Culture
‘The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind’ Review: Saving a Village, Using Books and Brains
Based on a true story, Chiwetel Ejiofor’s well-intentioned yet flat directing debut follows a teenage boy whose ingenuity protects his village from famine.
‘Giant Little Ones’ Review: The Turmoil of Teenage Sexuality
This open-minded drama features strong performances and characters who speak in refreshingly unadorned dialogue.
Review: One Cheer for ‘We Are the Tigers’
High schoolers, jump scares and songs are a tantalizing mix. But Preston Max Allen’s meandering show squanders a promising concept.
‘Wrestle’ Review: On the Mat, Fighting for a Future
Raw and empathetic, Suzannah Herbert and Lauren Belfer’s vérité portrait of four high-school wrestlers disdains forced uplift.
The Lustful Middle School Girl Rises
Thanks to “PEN15,” “Eighth Grade” and “Big Mouth,” the awkward, weird and sex-obsessed pubescent girl is having a moment.
Review: ‘PEN15’ Goes Crudely, Sweetly Back to School
The weird kid sister of “Broad City” and “Eighth Grade,” this Hulu comedy remembers middle school painfully well.
A Marvel Hero Copes With Bipolar Disorder
The teenage Wasp has inherited her father’s mission for justice. Like him, she must also learn to live with a mental health condition.
In a Memoir, Laurie Halse Anderson Gets Personal About Rape
Anderson’s novel “Speak” broke open the silence about teenagers and sexual assault. Now “Shout” aims to help other victims find their voices.
.
How the Parkland Shooting Led to a Generation’s Political Awakening
In his book “Parkland,” Dave Cullen follows the survivors of the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on their quest to change gun laws and heal themselves.
In Angie Thomas’s ‘On the Come Up,’ a Young Rapper Finds Her Way
The follow-up to “The Hate U Give” introduces a heroine whose late father was a local hip-hop legend. She has a struggling mom, a venal manager and a ton of talent.
Y.A. Thrillers That Put Teenagers to the Test
An emotionless world where feelings are a commodity. A murderer pursuing a homecoming queen. And more, in novels from Karen M. McManus, E.K. Johnston, Lamar Giles and S.E. Grove.
In This New Caper Novel, a Yearbook Reveals Family Secrets
Elinor Lipman’s “Good Riddance” offers an up-to-the-minute look at a young woman’s life in Manhattan.
Kids and Culture? There’s So Much to Talk About
Arts writers for The New York Times share their strategies (snacks) and budget-friendly options (outdoor events) in a discussion about introducing children to the arts.
