SUNDAY PUZZLE — We’ve got a Sunday debut today, from a mathematician who’s not afraid to ask the tough questions, or to draw on somewhat squicky activities familiar to pet owners, or bullies, or both. (If that group exists. Personally, I am mercilessly bullied by my pets.)
I thought the cluing today was challenging and offbeat, in an appealing way. When we sit down to a puzzle by a new constructor, it’s usually a daily, which has about half as many chances (clues) to get a feel for someone’s style. I liked having a longer introduction, and I thought Richard Crowe’s tone was very distinctive — we’ll see what we get next from him.
I also didn’t notice much fill that depended on 21st-century creations, fads or technology, which was refreshing. I did find a handful of total stumpers, some anachronisms that I imagine will challenge the youngest among us, and some great misdirection and general vagueness that made for a very crunchy, slow but satisfying solve.
I noted several obscure-but-valid definitions, like DOER for “executor” and ASLOPE for “not level.” Those entries weren’t difficult, in retrospect; neither were SNOOTS, SACHET and TBONDS, WAS I and IT’S A DEAL, but a lot of the cluing conspired to slow my roll. Also, in the “You don’t get a second chance to make a first impression” department, the cross at 1A of CLAMS, as clued, with CHICHI struck me as charmingly retro.
A few of the small entries that totally schooled me today were NO PAR (a stock with no face value, something I didn’t know); AMF, which once stood for “American Machine and Foundry” (and manufactured automatic pinsetters); and GARY the snail.
62A: I loved the mental image that I got after trying to figure out what dish Mr. Crowe could be hinting at (with “corn on the side”) and finally landing on FARMHOUSE. Just reach out the window and pick yourself some corn — this seems delightful.
82A: So this is a “mondegreen,” when song lyrics are misheard and eternally etched into your brain; I know this only because I happened on the term yesterday working on the Saturday post. A lot of them are pretty great if you have a nonsense-tolerant bone in your body, and we should all have evolved one of those by now (or maybe it’s our vestigial tails). Anyhow, see if you don’t hear “the SKY’S in love with you” in this golden oldie.
102A: As a tool for altering a photo, “retouch” didn’t fit, nor did “Instagram filter”; I think these two techniques, strictly speaking, chronologically bookend the classic AIRBRUSH technique, the one that used hand tools and preceded Photoshop. I guess retouching and airbrushing do blur together a bit as these things go; it’s interesting how quickly vanity became a factor in the miracle of early photography. AIRBRUSH is a debut.
4D: I had no memory at all of these brothers, the MAHRE twins, although I probably did watch the 1984 Olympics. Back then, there weren’t a thousand people recording every schuss on their phones, so that may have also been why I drew a blank.
40D: I sort of filled these letters in with growing disbelief at LITTER BOX, the place to literally “get the latest poop.” If you ever find yourself apoplectic with rage while solving a crossword puzzle, and you’re familiar with the item in question, it turns out that toxoplasmosis might make people flip out. Where are the litter box robots we were promised at the World’s Fair?
47D: And now, I find myself utterly relieved to not have firsthand experience with the WET WILLY, another debut (that gave our constructor a sense of satisfaction, people). Maybe because I have no older brothers? I don’t know — don’t tell anyone, it’s not something I want to happen. “Noogie” has made many appearances in the puzzle, and “wedgie” just a couple when defined as a “prank involving underwear” (and not a style of shoe).
There are seven interrogatory theme entries today at 23, 33, 45, 63, 80, 96 and 108 across. Each entry uses a different relative pronoun (e.g. who, what, where and how), and all the entries are commonly heard queries — some idiomatic, some just common to conversation. They’re all used as puns today; the italicized clue for each is just a reference to whoever would appropriately ask such a question.
The first clue that I dug into was at the bottom, “Baseball scorekeeper,” which I solved on the crosses as ANYBODY HOME. This didn’t do much for me but provide a small hint (baseball/home plate), but it did start to sink in when I meandered up to 80A, “Maternity room nurse,” and found myself first filling in “Who’s coming now,” which sort of made sense until I corrected 75D to DREAM and then realized this had to be WHO’S CRYING NOW, which struck me as hilarious. At this point, the theme started to come together, so much so that I was able to take a couple of guesses that panned out (well, sort of):
First, maybe because I just got some lovely souvenir paintings back from the frame store, 45A seemed like a no-brainer:
Museum curator
HOWS IT HANGING

But then that peculiar unexpected-choice thing I encountered so much in the clues struck me, and I had “him” instead of YOU for 96A:
Parasitologist
WHATS EATING HIM

23A was near and dear to my heart, and should probably have been a gimme, but it came toward the end:
Copy editor
IS THAT A FACT

And I had to figure out the last two entries, referring to politics and sports, on crosses. 63A was particularly clever because of its placement, right across this puzzle’s Equator, but the humor was pretty lost on me until I looked up the rules that a “Football line judge” has to know and follow.
This puzzle started with two theme questions that ended up on the cutting-room floor: WHO’S YOUR DADDY? and WHAT’S THE CATCH? Unlike all the half-baked puzzle ideas I have in a notebook, possible theme answers flowed pretty easily for this one.
This is the second crossword I’ve gotten published, and the first in The New York Times. I came to construction by way of mathematics, which, it turns out, is not uncommon. About a year ago, I got curious and thought, “That looks hard to do, so why not try it.” It is, but in a good way. If you have similar curiosity, be ready to become engrossed like a child at play.
Will & Co. edited a bucketful of clues, as you’d expect, tightening things up, eliminating wordiness, and relieving the solver of my inclination toward obscurity. There were some clues I had hoped they would keep, and, yay, they did, e.g., 62-Across, 82-Across, 100-Across and 51-Down. And, thankfully, when the middle left edge of the puzzle required editing, I was able to preserve one original answer — I can die happy now knowing that I premiered WET WILLY in The New York Times crossword puzzle.
Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here.
What did you think?
