Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.
1. President Trump had invited the publisher of The New York Times to an off-the-record dinner. The publisher, A. G. Sulzberger, said he preferred an on-the-record interview with reporters in the room. Mr. Trump agreed.
That led to a wide-ranging interview in the Oval Office on Thursday, during which Mr. Trump called negotiations with Congress over the border wall “a waste of time” and said the job of president was a “loser” financially.
Mr. Trump spoke in a low voice, his arms folded tightly, during questions about the Russia inquiry. But he was more good-humored at other points and grew most animated when condemning news coverage he considered unfair. Here are five takeaways from our interview.
The president’s State of the Union address is slated for Tuesday night. A senior administration official said immigration would be the main theme.
Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.
____
2. Ralph Northam, the Democratic governor of Virginia, is facing intense pressure from his own party to resign after a racist picture on his 1984 medical school yearbook page became public. The photo showed one person in blackface and one dressed as a Ku Klux Klan member.
At first Mr. Northam, above, acknowledged that he was in the photo, but on Saturday he denied that he was either person pictured. He said he would not quit and asked Virginians to let him earn their forgiveness.
“I cannot in good conscience choose the path that would be easier for me to duck the responsibility to reconcile,” Mr. Northam said.
____
3. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, above, entered the 2020 race for president, joining a Democratic primary field that is the most diverse in history. It remains to be seen how Mr. Booker’s relentless optimism will fare with a Democratic electorate energized by seething anger toward the president.
A potential candidate, Howard Schultz, was greeted by protesters when he returned to his hometown, Seattle, on Thursday. Mr. Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, is considering running as an independent, a move many believe would hurt the Democrats’ chances.
And there’s a thorny question several liberal candidates will have to navigate: Will people lose the choices offered by private health insurance under a single-payer system? The 2020 race will be the first time many leading Democratic candidates will have to explain and defend “Medicare for all.”
____
4. As cities and towns in the Midwest began assessing deaths, injuries and damage after this week’s deep freeze, fast-warming weather is throwing the region into a temperature roller coaster.
It could be 52 degrees in the Chicago region on Monday, up 73 degrees from Thursday morning, when the city saw a low of minus 21. “It’s fairly rare to see this much of a turnaround in temperature in this short of time,” a meteorologist with the National Weather Service said. Above, Lake Michigan’s shoreline in Chicago on Wednesday.
We captured images of what life looked like in the frozen Midwest. Government officials said at least 21 deaths across the region were related to the bitter weather system.
____
5. The Trump administration is suspending the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, one of the last major nuclear arms control treaties with Russia.
“We can no longer be restricted by the treaty while Russia shamelessly violates it,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, above, said Friday.
President Vladimir Putin of Russia responded by also suspending his country’s observance of the treaty, and said Russia would build weapons previously banned under the pact and would no longer initiate talks with the United States on any matters related to nuclear arms control.
Separately, President Trump seemed optimistic about reaching a landmark trade deal with China, but suggested he might leave some tariffs in place anyway.
____
6. The Senate delivered a bipartisan rebuke to President’s Trump foreign policy, voting overwhelmingly to advance legislation that expresses strong opposition to the withdrawal of United States military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. Above, U.S. Marines in Afghanistan last year.
The amendment — written by the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, and backed by virtually every Senate Republican — will be added to a broader bipartisan Middle East policy bill expected to easily pass the Senate next week.
The president of Afghanistan, Ashraf Ghani, is also concerned about a hasty American exit, and sent a letter to Mr. Trump on Tuesday offering him reduced costs for keeping U.S. troops in the country.
____
7. Two tech giants had two different weeks.
Apple announced Tuesday that profits were flat and revenues were down in its most recent quarter, which the company attributed to the economic slowdown in China and diminishing demand for new iPhones.
Facebook, despite a string of scandals in 2018, said Wednesday that it had gained new users around the world in the fourth quarter and reported a record profit.
And Apple cut off Facebook’s access to apps and updates that it was working on internally, saying the social network violated Apple’s rules. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, may be the only one who can fix Facebook’s privacy problem, our Business Day columnist writes.
____
8. Employers shrugged off both the monthlong partial government shutdown and fears of an economic slowdown to add 304,000 jobs in January. This marks the 100th consecutive month of job gains, more than double the previous record.
But the economy did not escape the shutdown unscathed: The Congressional Budget Office estimated this week that the funding lapse shaved $11 billion off total output, $3 billion of which will never be recovered. Above, federal employees at a food kitchen in Washington, D.C., in mid-January.
It was a tough week for digital media, with more than 1,000 employees laid off at BuzzFeed, AOL, Yahoo and HuffPost, and Vice Media starting the process of laying off some 250 workers. What went wrong? It’s complicated.
____
9. It’s Super Bowl Sunday.
Follow our live coverage of Super Bowl LIII here.
The road to the big game had plenty of twists and turns: mistakes, penalties, upsets — and a whole lot of fun. Here’s an illustrated look at how we got here.
Tom Brady is now New England’s favorite adopted son. This has more to do with timing, some key lifestyle decisions and a certain fight with the N.F.L. over deflated footballs than with his collection of Super Bowl rings, our sports reporter writes.
Hundreds of former N.F.L. athletes have said they started regularly taking painkillers when they entered the league. Their habits can persist in retirement, sending them on journeys into addiction.
____
10. And finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.
We talk to the wife of El Chapo, Emma Coronel Aispuro, who has no regrets, and look at the full story of Lorena Bobbitt. We also write about the lives of remarkable black men and women who never received an obituary in The New York Times, including, clockwise from top left: Nina Mae McKinney, Alfred Hair, Oscar Micheaux, Gladys Bentley, Mary Ellen Pleasant, Major Taylor and Philip A. Payton Jr.
For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these 10 new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.
Have a great week.
Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
