Welcome to the first 2019 edition of Teenagers in The Times. This roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com appears on the first Thursday of each month during the school year.
For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition.
_________
Education
Student Targeted by ‘Troll Storm’ Hopes Settlement Will Send Message to White Supremacists
Evan James McCarty said he would renounce white supremacy and apologize to Taylor Dumpson, who endured abuse after she was elected student body president at American University.
Teaching Children Regardless of Grade
Educators in a remote valley in India devised a community approach to instructing students when teachers were sparse. As this Opinion essay states, it’s catching on.
‘I Feel Invisible’: Native Students Languish in Public Schools
At Wolf Point High School in rural Montana, Native American students face the same neglect Native students across the U.S. do as they navigate a school system that has failed American Indians.
Throwing Open the Schoolhouse Doors, Once and For All
“We can send every child to school by 2030. Here’s how to pay for it,” according to the writer of this Opinion essay.
Their Plans Derailed by a Wildfire, Seniors at Paradise High School Wonder What’s Next
In the weeks since California’s deadliest wildfire, the senior class of Paradise High School is scattered across the region and country, their post-graduation plans disrupted.
Anchorage Goes Back to School After an Earthquake
Some 48,000 students returned to class this week for the first time since the earthquake. Even before the quake, the school system had wrestled with tumult.
Trump Administration Rolls Back Obama-Era Rules for School Lunches
The Department of Agriculture announced its plans to lower nutritional standards for grains, flavored milks and sodium in school cafeterias.
A Ban on Parents in the School Lunchroom? Everyone Seems to Have an Opinion
“What began as a small debate in a wealthy Connecticut town erupted into a controversy over when Mom and Dad should let go.
In 19 States, It’s Still Legal to Spank Children in Public Schools
Tens of thousands of children continue to be physically punished at school, and efforts to end the practice entirely have stalled.
State Police Investigating Abuse at Celebrated Louisiana School
New allegations have arisen since The New York Times detailed physical and emotional abuse at T.M. Landry, a school celebrated for landing black students in elite colleges.
Kansas Boy, 16, Is Set to Graduate in the Spring From High School — and Harvard
The teenager said he hopes to go to law school in the fall, and his goal is to one day become president.
Do Children Get a Subpar Education in Yeshivas? New York Says It Will Finally Find Out
Some students graduate from the ultra-Orthodox schools barely knowing how to read and write in English. New rules could force the schools to change how they operate.
The Misguided Priorities of Our Educational System
“We spend too much money on college students and not enough on everyone else,” states this Opinion essay.
Allow School Personnel to Have Access to Weapons, Report Says
President Trump read the recommendations of the Federal Commission on School Safety, which played down the role of guns in school violence.
Trump Administration Report on School Safety Plays Down Role of Guns
The report instead focused on rescinding Obama-era disciplinary policies, improving mental health services and training school personnel in the use of firearms.
What Straight-A Students Get Wrong
This Opinion essay argues “if you always succeed in school, you’re not setting yourself up for success in life.”
For-Profit College Chain Closes, Shutting Out Nearly 20,000 Students
Education Corporation of America ran more than 70 campuses across the country before closing schools this week after it lost its accreditation.
Challengers of Affirmative Action Have a New Target: New York City’s Elite High Schools
The controversy surrounding Mayor Bill de Blasio’s plan to integrate the city’s specialized high schools just intensified.
‘I Just Love White Men’: White Man Aims Racist Rant at Columbia Students of Color
In a video posted to Twitter, a young man identified as a student yelled white supremacist remarks on campus early Sunday morning.
_________
Civics, Politics, Economics and Business
9-Year-Old Boy Helps Repeal Snowball Throwing Ban in Colorado Town
Dane Best of Severance, Colo., successfully lobbied the town of Severance to repeal a ban on snowball throwing that was part of a nearly century-old ordinance.
At 12, He Lost His Best Friend. He Found a Way to Remember Him.
Kaleb and KJ were like brothers. When KJ died this year, Kaleb started raising money.
Indiana High School Student Charged With Murdering Pregnant Classmate
Breana Rouhselang, 17, was six months pregnant when her body was found in a dumpster. The father of her child, Aaron Trejo, 16, confessed to killing her, the authorities said.
From Collecting Firewood for Sale to Forging a Path in College
Five years ago, Nuam San came to the U.S. unable to speak English. Now she‘s going to college to “be the leader for my whole family.”
She Ran Away From Foster Care. She Ended Up in Handcuffs and Leg Irons.
It is not a crime to run away from foster care. But in Family Court hearings each week, the city is getting arrest warrants for children who do.
Troubled Girls Were Sent to This Town to Heal. Many Were Lured Into the Sex Trade Instead.
Nineteen people were charged with exploiting girls at the Hawthorne Cedar Knolls center as part of a sex-trafficking ring.
How a Crackdown on MS-13 Caught Up Innocent High School Students
The Trump administration went after gang members — and instead destroyed the American dreams of immigrant teenagers around the country.
A Second Chance for Prisoners, and Their Warden
As a school board member in Wolf Point, Mont., Ron Jackson couldn’t help struggling Native American students as much as he hoped. Now some of them are his inmates.
Priest Pulled From Funerals After Repeatedly Citing Teenager’s Suicide in ‘Pastoral Disaster’
The parents of a teenager who killed himself said the Catholic priest who presided at his funeral repeatedly brought up his suicide, compounding their grief.
At 14, She Hunts Wolves and Takes Selfies With Cherished Eagle in Mongolia
In western Mongolia, hunting for fur and food with trained eagles is an important part of the local culture — and a way for tech-savvy teenagers to connect with their elders.
Kashmiri Teenagers Are Dying to Protect Militants
Indian forces hunting for separatist fighters now regularly face angry crowds seeking to defend them. Scores of civilians have been killed.
A Moment in Mexico: Children of the Narco Zone
What it’s like to grow up as the child of an avowed gangster.
12-Year-Old in China Kills His Mother, Then Returns to School, Igniting an Outcry
The decision to allow the boy to return to school has raised questions about China’s policy of not holding children underage 14 responsible for crimes.
I’m 13 and I Write Holiday Cards to People in Prison
“I hope you, too, do something that makes you and another person feel good this season,” states this Opinion essay writer who is currently in eighth grade.
My Friend ‘Virginia, From Virginia’
At boarding school, the gift of an unlikely connection is the topic of this Opinion essay.
Alexa Krugel Is a Reliable Friend
Alexa is one of ‘20 Kids Who Make the World a Better Place’ featured in The New York Times for Kids.
A Toast to the Future From Young People Who Needed a Path
A 12-week internship program provides disadvantaged young people with paid internships and a network of resources.
_________
Science, Health, Technology and Sports
How to Foster Empathy in Children
Research shows that we are each born with a given number of neurons that participate in an empathetic response. But early life experience shapes how we act on it.
Starting School Later Really Does Help Teens Get Sleep
Before Seattle made a change, students got an average of six hours and 50 minutes of sleep a night. Afterward, they got seven hours and 24 minutes.
Study Shows Big Rise in Teen Vaping This Year
Use of other drugs, including opioids, alcohol and tobacco cigarettes, was down and marijuana use was steady, the annual survey of American teenagers found.
Addicted to Vaped Nicotine, Teenagers Have No Clear Path to Quitting
Parents, schools and public health experts struggle to find effective ways to help young people quit e-cigarettes. “There is no sound science yet.”
How to Help Teenagers Quit Vaping
Though options are limited for now, they exist. For starters, parents should recognize that they are confronting an addiction to nicotine, which is hard to break.
When Report Cards Go Out on Fridays, Child Abuse Increases on Saturdays, Study Finds
Verified cases of child abuse in Florida occurred at higher rates on the Saturdays after the release of report cards at public schools, according to a JAMA Pediatrics study.
My 15-Year-Old Daughter Told Me She’s Pansexual and Dating a Transgender Boy. I’m Struggling.
A mother wonders how to support the child she doesn’t entirely understand.
Like Tomboys and Hate Girlie Girls? That’s Sexist
According to this Opinion essay writer, “we need to stop maligning femininity, in both girls and boys.”
Why Is Children’s Masturbation Such a Secret?
Parents and children have questions, but there is surprisingly little guidance available in the pediatric literature.
How to Be More Resilient
“Some people are just genetically tougher. But you can train your brain to better handle stress,” according to the writer of this Opinion essay.
In France, School Lessons Ask: Which Twitter Post Should You Trust?
To combat online misinformation and radicalization, one of the world’s largest national internet literacy efforts is teaching students how to spot junk information
Kids Shouldn’t Have to Sacrifice Privacy for Education
“Our laws offer students very little protection against the wiles of the technology industry,” according to this Opinion essay.
Is Screen Time Bad for Kids’ Brains?
A study featured on “60 Minutes” is sure to alarm parents. Here’s what scientists know, and don’t know, about the link between screens, behavior, and development.
PowerPoint Is the Most Efficient Way for Kids to Manage Their Parents
The most solid method for kids to achieve their goals? An awesome presentation.
The Town Where the Shots Go Up, and the Records Fall
Joe Girard III is smashing scoring records at Glens Falls High School, recalling another favorite son of upstate New York who preceded him there.
In the U.S., Young Hockey Goalies Are Coming In From the Cold
For years, there was wasn’t much instruction available for youngsters who wanted to guard the net. Gradually, that has changed.
Athlete to Activist: How a Public Coming Out Shaped a Young Football Player’s Life
In a very public speech last year, Jake Bain, now a college athlete, became an accidental activist determined to change the national conversation about gay teenagers.
‘Destroying Our Children for Sport’: Thailand May Limit Underage Boxing
A 13-year-old’s death in the ring has spurred moves to limit the hallowed sport of muay Thai among children, and fierce calls in its defense.
Mom Sells Tomatoes as Her Son Seeks Tennis Titles
Chun Hsin Tseng is the No. 1 player in the junior boys rankings. Now that he’s turning pro, his family can close their Taipei food stand.
For Mo’ne Davis, a Social Awakening and a Commitment to Hampton
Davis, the first girl to pitch a shutout at the Little League World Series, said she would play softball next year at Hampton, partly influenced by her appreciation for black history.
Everyone Loves to Watch Zion Williamson Play. Maybe as Much as He Loves Playing
The Duke freshman is earning comparisons to Charles Barkley, Shawn Kemp and, yes, even LeBron James and has everyone in basketball’s attention.
A British Hockey Player Lands in Canada
Liam Kirk, 18, is from England and is playing in a junior league to pursue his N.H.L. dream. But he is already a commercial phenom in a sport that is growing back home.
Civil Rights Investigation Opened After Black Wrestler Had to Cut His Dreadlocks
Officials are reviewing the incident for possible bias after a video of the incident went viral.
_________
Arts, Media and Culture
Rookie Cataloged a Generation of Girlhood
Tavi Gevinson’s online magazine served as a collective diary for Gen Z.
Every Christmas Eve, a Lone Choir Boy Sings to More Than 370 Million
The Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols at King’s College, Cambridge, was directed for the last time by Stephen Cleobury and broadcast around the world.
In a Season of Boys’ Choirs, a Question: Why No Girls?
The tradition of all-boy church choirs goes back centuries. But now some are asking if it’s time for a change.
Is Any Topic Off Limits When You Write for Teenagers? Maybe Just One
Young adult books now address every corner of teenage experience, no matter how dark or racy. But few authors dare to write about religion and faith.
Louis C.K. Mocks Parkland School Shooting Survivors in Recent Set
In the bit, part of a 50-minute set posted on YouTube over the weekend, the comedian joked about the victims of the Florida school shooting.
_________
