[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Martha Moxley’s body was found under a pine tree on her family’s estate in a gated Connecticut community. She had been struck with a steel golf club with enough force to break it, and a piece of the shaft was used to stab her through the neck.The case grew into a sensation after Michael C. Skakel, her neighbor and a cousin of the Kennedys, was charged years later with murder, which would result in a drawn-out legal fight that posed questions about the influence of wealth and privilege in the justice system.Now the battle might have reached its end as the United States Supreme Court on Monday denied prosecutors’ attempts to revive Mr. Skakel’s conviction. Prosecutors could still opt to retry the case.In a statement on Monday, the State Division of Criminal Justice declined to comment on its plans for moving forward with the case. “We appreciate the Supreme Court’s consideration of the state’s petition,” the statement said.In May, prosecutors had sought to appeal a decision by the State Supreme Court to overturn Mr. Skakel’s conviction for killing Ms. Moxley in Greenwich in 1975, when they were both 15. In a case marked by twists and turns that captured tabloid headlines and filled books and hours of television, the state court’s decision to reverse its own decision from not even two years earlier was another surprising wrinkle.But it would not be the final pivot, as prosecutors indicated after the ruling their intention to try to bring the case to the United States Supreme Court.“Because this Court’s decision is grounded exclusively on federal constitutional law,” prosecutors wrote in a motion filed in the weeks after the state court ruling, “the United States Supreme Court should have the opportunity to address this case and the issues it raises.”[How the Skakel-Moxley murder case unfolded over four decades]But the state court ruling stands as the Supreme Court denied the prosecution’s petition to hear its appeal. Prosecutors would face hurdles if they retried the case, as memories have faded and witnesses have died.As it was, 25 years passed before Mr. Skakel was charged; the investigation had been stalled by a lack of physical evidence.Roman Martinez, a lawyer for Mr. Skakel, said the Supreme Court decision should “end this case once and for all.” He said the state courts had “painstakingly reviewed every detail of Michael Skakel’s case” and found that his conviction had been the result of an unfair trial.“The exculpatory evidence that emerged after Michael’s trial shows that he spent 11 years in prison for a crime he did not commit,” Mr. Martinez said.Ms. Moxley was killed on Oct. 30, 1975. Mr. Skakel — the nephew of Ethel Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy’s widow — was not arrested in Ms. Moxley’s killing until he was in his late 30s. He was found guilty by a jury in 2002 after a three-week trial that turned largely on circumstantial evidence.Investigators had recovered part of the golf club that was used to kill Ms. Moxley, a 6-iron from a set that had belonged to Mr. Skakel’s mother. But prosecutors had no direct physical evidence tying Mr. Skakel to the killing, and he claimed he was miles from the murder scene.With Mr. Skakel facing a life sentence, Ms. Kennedy sent the judge a handwritten letter from Hyannis Port, Mass., pleading for leniency. She praised Mr. Skakel for his “mental toughness, fortitude, courage and tenacity” in overcoming his difficult upbringing and alcohol addiction, and for his “sweetness, kindness, good cheer and love of life.”The letter was signed, “Out of the depths, but with hope, Ethel Kennedy.”After Mr. Skakel was sentenced to 20 years to life, his new legal team waged an extensive, and expensive, appeal, asserting that his trial lawyer had repeatedly failed him. His appellate lawyers argued that the trial lawyer did not investigate a witness who could have confirmed Mr. Skakel was nowhere close to the Moxley home at the time of the murder, and they have suggested that one of Mr. Skakel’s brothers could have been the culprit.A judge vacated the conviction before it was reinstated by the State Supreme Court in 2016. (Mr. Skakel has been out of prison since 2013.) The high court, acting on a request from the defense, decided to review its own decision. In the interim, the makeup of the court changed with the retirement of the justice who wrote the majority opinion in the 2016 ruling.The majority opinion in the May ruling cited the shortcomings of Mr. Skakel’s trial lawyer and noted that the conviction was founded on a case “devoid of any forensic evidence or eyewitness testimony linking the petitioner to the crime.”But Justice Carmen E. Espinosa offered a lacerating dissent in which she argued that the case had underscored how much wealth and prominent connections had served to benefit Mr. Skakel. Other convicted criminals, she wrote, “would undoubtedly be thrilled to receive such special treatment.”“Unfortunately for them, the vast majority do not share the petitioner’s financial resources, social standing, ethnicity or connections to a political dynasty,” Justice Espinosa wrote. “Nor do their cases share the same ‘glam’ and celebrity factor as this cause célèbre.”