(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Boeing’s decision-making processes, Venezuela’s opposition at a perilous crossroads and Apple’s impact on the Chinese economy. Here’s the latest:In 2010, Airbus announced it would introduce a more fuel-efficient version of its popular A320 jetliner. Within months, Boeing announced plans to upgrade its own 737 jets.In designing the new 737 Max, Boeing tried to avoid a complete overhaul of its systems so that it could persuade  regulators at the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration that there would be no need for expensive, time-consuming retraining for pilots.That decision appears to have left the crew of the Lion Air jet that crashed in Indonesia in October, killing 189 people, without a full understanding of how to respond when faulty data led the flight control system to repeatedly push down the nose of the plane.How we know: Our journalists interviewed engineers, former Boeing employees, pilots, regulators and congressional aides to understand some of the choices Boeing made as it developed the 737 Max.The central problem: The Max’s enlarged engines had to be mounted differently, which had a destabilizing effect. A new, automatic flight control system was created to counter the possibility of stalls. It’s likely that the Lion Air pilots weren’t told about the new system — or how to handle it in an emergency.Zooming around Caracas largely unguarded, the 35-year-old lawmaker Juan Guaidó has been working at a relentless pace to topple Venezuela’s authoritarian government — leading street protests and trying to persuade military leaders and other nations to turn on President Nicolás Maduro, as much of the public has done. With remarkable speed, more than 20 countries have recognized Mr. Guaidó as the country’s interim president.But his success is uncertain. The top military brass has publicly rallied behind Mr. Maduro. Oil sanctions imposed by the U.S. last week will soon further undercut the country’s crumbling economy, and President Trump on Sunday once again described the use of military force against Venezuela as “an option.”Looking ahead: Bracing for the sanctions, Mr. Guaidó and his international allies intend to start pumping humanitarian aid into Venezuela in direct defiance of Mr. Maduro. The opposition sees a make-or-break moment to prove that it can deliver concrete relief, but it could be in for a long standoff.China’s factories, the manufacturers for the world, now meet domestic demand, too. And so they’re more vulnerable to the country’s weakening consumer spending — as reflected in stagnant iPhone sales — and broader economic slowdown, all made worse by the U.S.-China trade war.We looked closely at Huojiancun, an area at the edge of glittering Shanghai where factory workers assemble iPhones. Their dwindling paychecks aren’t just weakening their prospects but also the economic microcosm that had emerged around them, including a bustling night market and food stands.Impact: China’s slowdown reverberates in complicated ways. It could be putting Beijing at a disadvantage in the trade war. But weak spending by Chinese consumers is also affecting major technology companies, whose general pallor makes them unlikely, our reporter writes, to power any new highs on Wall Street.Last month, a commission appointed by the German government floated the idea of a national speed limit on the autobahn. It not only sank like a stone but nearly caused rioting. The far-right opposition raged against the “stranglehold” of the state, and the transport minister, contradicting his own experts, declared the notion “contrary to every common sense” and shelved it.With few exceptions, there are highway speed limits everywhere. But Germany, birthplace of the car, has a quasi-religious need for unbridled speed.By the numbers: A limit of 120 kilometers an hour, or 75 miles per hour, would significantly reduce carbon emissions, environmental experts say, and at no cost. In 2017, 409 people died on the autobahn, almost half because of inappropriate speeding, according to the German statistics office. But that hasn’t swayed public opinion in a highly regulated society where the autobahn is the one place not rife with rules.Arms control: Russia suspended its observance of a key nuclear arms control pact on Saturday in response to a similar move by the U.S. a day before. We explain what the treaty is and why it matters.Sweden: Footage of a pregnant black woman being dragged from a train by the police in Stockholm has raised a public outcry over racial profiling.Pope Francis: His trip this week to the United Arab Emirates makes Francis the first pope to visit the Arabian Peninsula. He is looking to improve relations with the Muslim world and bolster the Middle East’s persecuted Christian minority.21 Savage: U.S. immigration officials took the rapper into custody and accused him of being in the country illegally. The Grammy nominee has long said he is from Atlanta, but officials say he is an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” who was supposed to leave the U.S. in 2006.China: Erik Prince, the founder of the security contracting firm formerly known as Blackwater, scrambled to distance himself from a deal announced by another company he owns to build a training camp in the Chinese region of Xinjiang, where hundreds of thousands of Muslims have been detained in indoctrination camps.Brexit: Should Britain leave the E.U. without a deal and riots erupt in the streets, officials have a plan to evacuate Queen Elizabeth II from London, local news outlets reported.Emiliano Sala: The wreckage of the small plane carrying the Argentine soccer striker and his pilot has been found in the English Channel, a shipwreck hunter said.Deutsche Bank: In 2016, the German bank rejected a loan request from Donald Trump, which he had sought for work on his golf property in Scotland, judging that his divisive presidential campaign made him too risky a client.Super Bowl: Advertisers largely played it safe during the broadcast of the U.S. championship football game, emphasizing technology like robots and artificial intelligence, while Maroon 5 performed a halftime show that our critic called “dynamically flat.” The New England Patriots beat the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, to win their sixth N.F.L. title, tying the record.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: This comforting lentil soup can’t get much easier.If you’re marrying soon, here are eight wellness products for your wedding day survival kit.Scientists are studying how your stomach affects your brain.February is Black History Month in the U.S., and The Times has put together a special presentation of its Overlooked series, featuring 13 prominent black men and women whose deaths were not previously noted in our report.Its editor, Amisha Padnani, described what she discovered through the stories of figures like Scott Joplin, the ragtime master; Gladys Bentley, a gender-bending blues singer; and Major Taylor, the first black world champion in cycling.“Many of them were a generation removed from slavery,” she wrote. “To carve a name for themselves, they sometimes had to make myth out of a painful history, misrepresenting their past to gain a better footing in their future.”“They were ambitious and creative, becoming painters and composers, filmmakers and actors,” she added. “Others used their imaginations to invent and innovate. Often they felt an unspoken greater mission to break the constraints society placed on their race.”The project was created in partnership with Past Tense, a new team at The Times that is delving into our archives to bring to life compelling stories from our past. Use this form to nominate a candidate for future Overlooked obits.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.