AUSTIN. Tex. — Kevin Kisner made it to the World Golf Championships match play final for the second straight year. This time, he got it right.A week that began with a loss ended on Sunday with the biggest victory of Kisner’s career when he holed a 20-foot birdie putt to close out Matt Kuchar, 3 and 2, at a chilly Austin Country Club.“It was a long week. I prevailed. And I’m a world golf champion,” Kisner said off the 16th green.He became the first player to win the event after losing in the final the previous year. That one was not close, as Bubba Watson ended the match in 12 holes.Kisner never trailed against Kuchar, though it was tight at the turn until Kuchar made too many mistakes. He missed a 12-foot putt on the 10th that would have tied the match, and on his next swing put his tee shot into the water on the par-3 11th.Given a 2-up lead, Kisner took it from there. He halved holes by making putts from 6 feet and 4 feet, and then seized control on the 15th when Kuchar’s chip was too strong and led to another lost hole. It was Kisner’s third PGA Tour victory, his first since 2017.Kuchar, who still moved to the top of the FedEx Cup standings, said: “I gave too many holes away. I knew against Kisner I couldn’t do it.”Kisner had to play 120 holes over seven matches in five days, a week that began with a loss to Ian Poulter in group play. Kisner, who finished in a tie for second behind Francesco Molinari in the British Open last year, became the first player to win the match play world event with a loss during the round-robin portion, which began in 2015.“If you’d have told me I’d be sitting here 10 years ago, I would probably have said you were crazy,” said the 35-year-old Kisner, who was playing on minitours at that time.“I think it shows in my grind. That’s what I do. I’ve had ups and downs throughout it. I’ve won on every tour, every level. And had tremendous downfalls on every tour and every level. So I pride myself in the way I pick myself up and keep grinding.”Kisner and Kuchar each had 1-up victories in the semifinals. Kisner had to get past Molinari, who had never had to play the 18th hole in five previous matches this week. Kuchar, who won the event in 2013, had to beat Lucas Bjerregaard, who had knocked out Tiger Woods in the quarterfinals. .