Dwyane Wade knows all too well the impact the NBA's rigorous travel schedule can have on family time.
He's been doing this for 16 years, and this spring, he'll be done playing for good. But this spring is still a ways away, and as a father of four, there's a lot that he's unable to experience — such as his oldest son, Zaire, making a name for himself on the basketball court as a high school hoops star in Florida.
Enter, BallerTV.
Wade on Tuesday became the first global ambassador of the amateur sports media platform, which was founded in 2016 and is designed to "expand the spectrum of sports coverage with live streams, replays and highlights of top amateur sporting events."
Like, say, Zaire's games.
"Of course I like to be (at the games), I like to feel the electricity ... I know he loves the support of his family and his loved ones there," Wade told USA TODAY Sports. "But because of the way that my job is set up and the way my wife's (actress Gabrielle Union) job is set up, our careers, we're not able to (always) be there.
"To be able to find BallerTV, I just felt like it was made for me. Just a parent who wants to be there, who loves to support his kids, but can't be there, so you can watch the game live or you can go back and watch it later."
That last part, Wade says, is significant. For Zaire, 16, having an NBA legend for a father can be a blessing and a curse. But under the first-hand tutelage of Wade, he has developed into a sought-after recruit and has caught the attention of a variety of Division I schools, including Nebraska, which offered him a scholarship in August.
"What I love about (BallerTV) ... is the fact that I can sit down with Zaire and be able to go back and watch it later and be able to go over the game and be able to go over — like going to watch film, in a sense," Wade said. "And I continue to try to show him how to be a student of the game, and how to learn the game a different way, is actually kind of perfect for our family, and for Zaire as a basketball player."
Zaire, a 6-2,175-pound point guard, has been in the national spotlight for some time, from his fifth-grade hoops mixtape to the viral video of him scoring on New York Knicks guard Tim Hardaway Jr. over the summer. While Wade says he's "older school" when it comes to the exposure today's young athletes receive, he understands the times are changing, and he's embracing it. 
"If this is the way it's going, this is the way it's going," Wade said. "For me, I want to make sure not only that my son has the right amount of exposure, but at the same time, try to keep the humble, the humility that I've tried to instill in him since Day One. To get out there so people can get the opportunity to see the way he plays and have a little following like he has now, I'm all about it."
Follow USA TODAY Sports' AJ Neuharth-Keusch on Twitter.
