Washington Wizards star John Wall will miss approximately the next 12 months with a ruptured left Achilles tendon after "slipping and falling" in his home, the team said in a news release on Tuesday.
Wall underwent season-ending surgery on his left heel on Jan. 8 and developed an infection in the incision from that procedure before suffering the rupture, according to the Wizards. The team said the rupture was diagnosed by Wizards director of medical services and orthopedist Dr. Wiemi Douoguih during a procedure to clean out the infection.
Douoguih said on a conference call with reporters Tuesday afternoon that Wall's injury is unusual because he didn't suffer a complete rupture, but from the standpoint of fixing the Achilles and healing, the injury falls within the parameters of a full rupture.
Wall, who has become one of the NBA's top point guards due in large part to his explosive athleticism, signed a four-year, $170 million contract extension in the summer of 2017. It begins next season. 
Wall's surgery has yet to be scheduled, but it will be performed by Dr. Robert Anderson, who performed his initial surgery. 
Wall opted to undergo the initial surgery, which was performed to address bone spurs in his left heel, to prevent a more serious injury.
"If I don’t want to deal with the pain or make it any worse and have an opportunity to maybe rupture my whole Achilles later down the road, you get the surgery and take it out,” Wall said in late December, per The Washington Post. “Some days it would be terrible where you couldn’t play or could barely walk. So it’s not really a hard decision for me to make. It was an easy decision. It was just also making sure that everybody on my team and everybody from the Wizards organization was on the same page.”
Want news from USA TODAY on WhatsApp? Click this link on your mobile device to get started
Wall, a five-time All-Star, averaged 20.7 points and 8.7 assists in 32 games this season for the Wizards, but the team has underperformed greatly and sits in 10th place in the Eastern Conference at 22-31.
This is just another blow for a team that looks nothing like the one that won 49 games and made it to Game 7 of the Eastern Conference semifinals two seasons ago. With injuries (in addition to Wall, starters Dwight Howard and Markieff Morris are out) and money tied up in players who aren't living up to expectations (Otto Porter, Ian Mahinmi), the Wizards' postseason hopes are slim, and the direction the franchise goes from here is very much up in the air.
