The NBA on Tuesday fined New Orleans Pelicans superstar Anthony Davis $50,000 "for violating a collectively-bargained rule prohibiting players or their representatives from making public trade demands."
Davis' agent, Rich Paul, who also represents Los Angeles Lakers superstar LeBron James, told ESPN that Davis has no plans to sign an extension with New Orleans and that his client wants to be traded.
The NBA said the statements made by Paul were "an intentional effort to undermine the contractual relationship between Davis and the Pelicans."
The league on Monday opened an investigation into Paul’s trade request comments, and there is precedent for a player being fined for a public trade request made by the agent.
In 2009, the NBA fined then-New York Knicks guard Nate Robinson $25,000 after his agent, Aaron Goodwin, told reporters that he asked the Knicks to trade his client.
The NBA fined Robinson for "conduct detrimental to the league," and NBA spokesman Tim Frank said players are responsible for public statements relating to them made by their representatives.
Per the NBA’s constitution and bylaws, $50,000 is the maximum amount NBA commissioner Adam Silver can fine a player for a public trade request.
Paul's comments have dominated NBA talk for the past two days. Where will Davis, who can’t become a free agent until 2020, end up? Will the Pelicans trade him before the Feb. 7 trade deadline? Will they wait until free agency in the summer when Boston can get involved?
The Lakers appear to be the destination. James has said it would amazing to play alongside Davis, who would give the Lakers the second superstar necessary to compete for an NBA championship.
The Pelicans are not thrilled with the development even though they had to know keeping Davis would be tough. In a statement released Monday, the Pelicans said they will "do this on our terms and our timeline. One that makes the most sense for our team and it will not be dictated by those outside of our organization. We have also requested the League to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction."
Unless the Lakers' offer can't be refused, it might be best for the Pelicans to wait until after the season and weigh multiple offers. Boston can't trade for Davis now because they already have a player (Kyrie Irving) on the roster who signed a "Derrick Rose Rule" rookie extension, allowing him to receive a larger percentage of the salary cap for meeting specific requirements such as All-Star or All-NBA. NBA rules prevent a team from acquiring two players on Rose Rule extensions via trade.
However, Irving can become a free agent this summer and will no longer be on a Rose Rule extension contract. The Celtics will have the players and assets to offer New Orleans.
One problem that might arise: What if Davis or his agent tells teams he will only re-sign with a handful of teams? That limits the scope of offers the Pelicans can evaluate because no team will want to trade for Davis and give up assets without a reasonable assurance he will re-sign when his contract is up in 2020.
Follow USA TODAY Sports' Jeff Zillgitt on Twitter.
 
