Oklahoma City Thunder forward Paul George told reporters Thursday he has been talking with Nike to find out what went wrong with a shoe he helped design.Duke’s Zion Williamson - the projected No. 1 NBA Draft pick - was injured when the standout forward shredded one of George’s shoes during Wednesday’s game against North Carolina. “I want to wish him all the best,” George said Thursday. “Outside of that, I don’t really know what happened. I’ve been talking to Nike to see what went wrong and what happened with the shoe. I take pride in that. My shoe is a successful shoe, not only in college but in the NBA." Williamson was wearing a Nike PG 2.5 PE, which retails for about $110.Nike said in a statement that “quality and performance of our products are of utmost importance” and the company is “working to identify the issue."Williamson suffered a Grade 1, or minor, right knee sprain early in the game and did not return. Duke said in a release Thursday he is listed as day-to-day.“It hasn’t happened to me as long as I’ve been in this shoe,” George said. “We’ve made three generations, going on four now of my shoe, of being successful. So I didn’t necessarily feel any way about that part — the negative part of it. My only concern was for Zion, honestly.”Nike’s stock price closed down about 1 percent (89 cents) at 83.95. Analyst Matt Powell of The NPD Group told USA TODAY Sports that the shoe failure was “embarrassing for sure,” but it had no impact in trading Thursday. Another issue for Nike is how the blowout will impact the shoe giant’s relationship with Williamson. He wore Adidas shoes when he played his high school ball at Spartanburg (S.C.) Day School.Puma has joined Nike, Adidas and Under Armour in the hunt for top-flight rookie talent that often brings long-term deals worth millions. Puma chided Nike with a since-deleted tweet after Williamson was forced out of the game. Last year, Puma signed former Duke forward Marvin Bagley III to a five-year deal reported to be the largest shoe deal since Kevin Durant's in 2014. That was worth between a reported $265 million and $285 million. Bagley was selected second overall in the NBA Draft.While Duke athletes are required to wear Nike as part of Duke’s contract with the company, it’s likely that contract allows for alternate equipment due to injury. Duke, as a private school, is not subject to public records requests, but such language is part of other deals between Nike and universities. Contributing: The Associated PressFollow A.J. Perez on Twitter @byajperez 