Oklahoma City Thunder star Russell Westbrook has been fined $25,000 for "directing profanity and threatening language to a fan," the NBA announced Tuesday afternoon.The incident occurred during Monday night's game between the Thunder and Jazz in Utah. The league announced the fine just minutes after the Jazz announced that the fan is banned from attending all future events at Vivint Smart Home Arena.In video shared on social media by a Deseret News reporter during the game, Westbrook, standing at the Thunder bench, can be heard shouting at the fan, who was sitting courtside."I promise you. You think I'm playing?" he says. "I swear to God. I swear to God. I'll (expletive) you up. You and your wife. I'll (expletive) you up."MORE: Russell Westbrook threatened a Jazz fan, but then we learned about the fanOPINION: No excusing fan behavior that prompted Russell Westbrook tiradeSpeaking with reporters after the game, which the Thunder won 98-89, Westbrook addressed the confrontation."A young man and his wife in the stands told me to get down on my knees like you used to," he said. "To me, that's just completely disrespectful. I think it's racial, and I think it's inappropriate in the sense that there's no protection for the players."I think there are a lot of great fans around the world that like to come to the game and enjoy the game. And there are people that come to the game to say mean, disrespectful things about me, my family."Westbrook added that if he had to do it over again, he'd "say the same exact thing. I truly will stand up for myself, for my family, for my kids, for my wife, for my mom, for my dad, every single time. I expect anybody else to do the same. So that's kind of where I'm at with the whole situation."As for beating up his wife — I have never put my hand on a woman, I never will. Never been in any domestic violence before, never have before, but once he said the comment, his wife repeated it, the same thing to me. That's kind of how it started."Salt Lake City's KSL5TV identified the fan as Shane Keisel, who spoke to the station's reporter about the incident."It was when Joe (Ingles) had come by and poked Paul George in the eye, and then Joe goes over and apologizes immediately," Keisel said. "Russ is just F-bombing and carrying on, acting a fool down here, and everybody's getting on him."He had, I guess heat, I thought it was ice, I just told him, 'Sit down and ice your knees, bro.' And he turned to me and he's like, 'That's heat, that's heat.' And I'm like, 'Well, you're gonna need it.' And then it turned into not safe for work."I never said a swear word to him. Everybody in the vicinity will say it. And she never left her seat, never said a word, hands in her lap. Never said a single swear word to him, not one. Initially, I was like, 'Oh, I'm talking with Westbrook. The guy's one of the greats.' But he's also classless."Jazz star Donovan Mitchell weighed in on the incident Tuesday afternoon, tweeting that he is "personally hurt" by what happened."As a black man living in a community I love, and playing on a team that gives me the opportunity to live out my dreams, this incident hits close to home," he said. "Racism and hate speech hurts us all, and this is not the first time something like this has happened in our arena. The Utah that I have come to love is welcoming and inclusive and last night's incident is not indicative of our fanbase." Mitchell added that he's going to "work with the team, my teammates and the league to help make our arenas and our communities more inclusive and welcoming. That includes bans on hate speech and racism"Monday night's incident was not the first between Westbrook and fans in Utah. He had a pair of confrontations during last year's first-round playoff series between the Thunder and Jazz.During Game 6 of the series, Westbrook was walking off the court at halftime when a fan leaned over a railing to shout at him. Westbrook turned toward the fan and appeared to yell, "Back the (expletive) up" before security intervened. After that game, which the Thunder lost, ending their season, Westbrook took a swipe in the direction of a fan who appeared to be recording the Oklahoma City star on his phone as he exited for the locker room."I don't confront fans, fans confront me," Westbrook said after the playoff game. "Here in Utah, man, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players here with these fans. It's truly disrespectful. (They) talk about your families, your kids. It's just a disrespect to the game and I think it's something that needs to be brought up."I'm tired of just going out and playing and letting fans say what the hell they want to say. I'm not with that. If I was on the street, they wouldn't just come up to me and say anything crazy, because I don't play that (expletive)." 