Kyler Murray only needs to persuade one team ahead of April’s NFL draft to use its first-round pick to settle the debate over whether he should play football or baseball.
“The NFL draft is about individual teams falling in love with a player,” longtime agent Leigh Steinberg told USA TODAY Sports. “He doesn’t have to convince all 32 teams.” 
Murray has already  persuaded one team to make him a first-round pick: the Oakland Athletics.
Murray was selected with the ninth overall pick in June's MLB draft and agreed to a $4.6 million bonus with the Athletics – an agreement that included a provision allowing him to play one more season of college football at Oklahoma. Several months later he led the Sooners to the College Football Playoff and won the Heisman Trophy.
More: NFL mock draft 2019: Where does Kyler Murray fit in first round?
More: Nine quarterbacks likely available to NFL teams in 2019, and the teams that need them
On Monday, Murray declared for the NFL draft but still has not committed to either sport. But the 21-year-old with the strong arm and quick feet will have to make a life-altering decision in the coming weeks: Baseball or football.
There are many factors, including earning potential, injury risk, career length and, of course, in which sport does he have the best chance to become a star. 
"People are wired to want immediate gratification," Chris Nowinski, co-founder and executive director of the Concussion Legacy Foundation, told USA TODAY Sports. "That's something that football offers. He's going to be in the headlines for the next year and could very well remain there. You can disappear when you're in minor league baseball a few years. Once you win the Heisman, you're famous. There's no going back to riding buses."
Should Murray choose football, one of the first things he will have to do is return to the A's that $4.66 million.
But it would be a small price to pay.
Murray would stand to nearly quadruple the guaranteed money with his first NFL contract.
For example, if the New York Giants take Murray with the sixth overall pick, as projected in USA TODAY's latest mock draft, the 21-year-old would receive a four-year, $25.5 million contract, including a guaranteed signing bonus of $16.5 million, according to data provided by Spotrac. 
“It's a complete no-brainer from a financial standpoint to at least give football a shot through the rookie wage scale,” Spotrac managing editor Michael Ginnitti said. “If he's a legitimate starting quarterback after year three, a huge extension will be a guarantee.”
Even if the A’s offer Murray a 40-man roster spot and an enhanced bonus, the path to comparable riches in baseball is likely to be far more circuitous.
Take the case of Boston Red Sox outfielder Andrew Benintendi. He was drafted seventh overall in 2015 after playing two seasons of collegiate baseball.
Benintendi quickly developed into a star, hitting 20 homers in his rookie season in 2017 and posting a .830 OPS last season for the World Series champions. Under MLB’s scale for players with less than three years’ service time, he made just $620,500 last season and won’t make much more than $700,000 in 2019.
He’ll get a significant bump during his three seasons of arbitration eligibility but even then will average around $9 million a season – putting him at about $32 million in career earnings – including his $3.6 million signing bonus – before hitting free agency at age 28.
“(Murray) is a college athlete who can either go directly to the NFL for likely a higher initial contract than his MLB signing bonus, which doesn't also account for the lucrative endorsement and sponsorship deals he will receive as an NFL quarterback who won the Heisman Trophy at a prominent program,” Oklahoma State professor Edward Kian said. “That is an easy choice rather than troll around the minor leagues for a few seasons in a sport where he has never batted above .296 in college and has no guarantee of ever making the majors.”
Although he was a top baseball prospect, former NFL quarterback Jim Miller never wavered in his decision to pursue football. He was drafted by the Kansas City Royals in the 39th round in 1991 after telling scouts he planned to play football at Michigan State.
Three years later he was taken by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the sixth round and went on to play pro football for 11 years. 
“I wanted the challenge of the position,” said Miller, who earned a Super Bowl ring with the New England Patriots in 2004. “I knew body-wise, there’d be injuries that I wouldn’t have in baseball. You’d have more longevity in baseball. I understood that going in. I’ve been able to live with that just fine.”
The NFL has implemented rule changes in recent changes to monitor potentially concussed players along with adding rules to curtail hits to the head. No position has benefited more from the rule changes than quarterback, so it’s arguably safer to be in the pocket than ever. 
Nowinski points out that Murray's mobility will make him more susceptible to big hits in the NFL. “You are not going to take blindside helmet-to-helmet shots throwing the ball, but if you run, you’re exposed,” Nowinski said.
Murray's 5-10 frame held up to the punishment at Oklahoma, although there are questions beyond how he will fare against more bruising NFL defenses. 
“There are going to be some who question his height,” Steinberg said. “Russell Wilson and Drew Brees have been very productive, and the truth of the matter is that Murray has a gift for the position that goes beyond his running alone. He can throw the ball accurately. He has the extra dimensions that some quarterbacks don’t have.”
An All-Star career in Major League Baseball will almost always be longer than the equivalent in the NFL, although the paradigm is shifting for quarterbacks.
Sixty-two quarterbacks have been selected in the first round  from 1998 to 2018. While half of that group is active, the average length of career for the others is seven years. The average career from 2000 to 2013 for all NFL players was about 5½ years, according to sports injury epidemiologist and consultant Zachary Binney. 
As for career earnings, quarterbacks drafted in the top 10, including those who are still active, have made $31.1 million for their career, according to Spotrac.
Steinberg said Murray has a good shot at improving his stock at the NFL Scouting Combine in February since the quarterback position is not as deep as in recent years. Baker Mayfield, Sam Darnold, Josh Allen and Josh Rosen were selected in the top 10 in 2018. 
“It’s somewhat of an open quarterback market," Steinberg said.
Two of the most prominent two-sport stars in history have made their feelings known on the baseball-football debate.
"If I knew back then what I know now, I would have never played football,"  Bo Jackson told USA TODAY Sports in 2017. "Never. I wish I had known about all of those head injuries, but no one knew that. And the people that did know that, they wouldn’t tell anybody."
Added Deion Sanders on ESPN this week, "If I was in his shoes, I'm picking up the baseball bat and I'm not looking back." 
 
