Super Bowl LIII has hundreds of prop bet options, including which player commits the first turnover and what will be the first penalty of the game between the Los Angeles Rams and New England Rams.
Those are just the prop bets that are allowed in Nevada – where gambling regulation restrict bets to in-game action. The seven states seven states (Delaware, Mississippi, New Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and West Virginia) that have opened up sportsbooks since the Supreme Court's decision overturned the federal law restricting state-sanctioned betting follow Nevada's approach to prop bets. 
But offshore sportsbooks, which are illegal under U.S. law, aren't bound by such rules and offer so-called "exotic" props, like the length of the national anthem. 
Picks: USA TODAY Sports' Super Bowl LIII picks: Patriots or Rams?
We will update you during the game on the status select prop bets.
Here are some of the most popular (and legal) bets per William Hill: 
Coin toss heads or tails. Result: Tails
Which player will commit the first turnover? Result: Tom Brady (5/2 odds) 
Will James Develin score a touchdown? Result: No. 
Will there be a safety in game? Result: No. 
Will there be a special teams or defensive touchdown? Result: No. 
Will there be successful fourth-down conversion in game:  Result: No. 
Will there be a successful two-point conversion? Result: No. 
Will game be decided by exactly three points? Result: No. 
Who will win MVP?: Result: Patriots WR Julian Edelman  (20/1 odds)
Will there be overtime in game?  Result: No.
Exotic props from BetOnline:
Length of the National Anthem: Over/under 1 minute 50 Seconds. Result: Under (1:49.5, but both sides graded as winner). 
Will Gladys Knight Kneel During National Anthem? Will any Player Kneel During National Anthem? Result: She did not kneel.
How many times will Giselle Bundchen be shown on TV during the Broadcast? Result: Bundchen was shown twice in the span of a minute in the fourth quarter. 
Will Adam Levine be wearing a hat at the start of his halftime performance? Result: No hat. 
 
