Super Bowl LIII is already behind us, which means that the 2018 season is a wrap. And though many of you may still be focused on the fallout from the Patriots' win over the Rams, we’re already looking ahead to the 2019 campaign and the issues that could shape the year.
Here are the 10 biggest questions of the NFL offseason:.
Where will the Raiders play?
They’re set to move to Las Vegas in 2020, but it's still unclear where they'll end up next season. After the city of Oakland filed a lawsuit against the NFL and the Raiders in December seeking damages from the eventual move, the Raiders pulled their lease offer for Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum for the 2019 season. So as it stands right now, the team has no place to play its home games. The league has acknowledged that the Raiders are considering all options, with Santa Clara’s Levi Stadium – the home of the 49ers – and San Diego standing as potential logical choices. But with the NFL needing to craft its schedule by April, as commissioner Roger Goodell said last week, “the sooner the better.”
Will anyone sign Kareem Hunt?
Goodell also said he expects the investigation into Hunt's multiple alleged violent incidents to conclude soon. But after the Chiefs released him following release of video that showed him shoving and kicking a woman last February, with the team saying in a statement that he was “not truthful” about the incident, he has remained unsigned while on the commissioner's exempt list. Though the running back is young and talented, any team signing him would likely face a backlash, and Hunt still may face additional discipline from the league. 
Will the competition committee make changes to the replay system?
Saints fans may still be smarting after the controversial no-call in the NFC Championship Game, and Goodell’s delayed response in addressing the matter heightened the frustrations of many. But for the first time in several years, there may be a push strong enough to enact significant changes to the league’s replay review system. Goodell said the competition committee “will look again” at replay policies, but perhaps the most likely outcome will be for any possible changes to be enacted on a year-to-year basis – similar to the way moving back extra points in the 2015 season was reviewed at the end of that campaign.
What will the Steelers do with disgruntled stars Le’Veon Bell and Antonio Brown?
Pittsburgh has two stars in their prime, but both may be playing for other teams in 2019. Bell, a running back, sat out the entire 2018 season after he refused to sign the franchise tag tender the team placed on him for the second consecutive year. Bell has cut off communication with Steelers brass, per reports, and the competition for his services should be huge. Brown, one of the top receivers in football, also stopped talking to Pittsburgh’s coaches after he skipped practices and was deactivated for the regular-season finale before  leaving the game at halftime, according to multiple reports. Steelers owner Art Rooney II said it was “hard to envision” Brown being back with the team next year, and he could stir significant interest as a trade target.
Will Kyler Murray pick football or baseball?
Murray, the reigning Heisman Trophy winner and Oklahoma quarterback, recently declared for the NFL draft. But the Oakland Athletics also selected him No. 9 overall in 2018 and have made it clear they want him to be part of their organization. In recent interviews, Murray has remained noncommittal about his path, including whether he'll show up for the NFL scouting combine (starting Feb. 26). If he moves forward with football, he could be a first-round selection in a draft class seemingly short on high-end talent at quarterback.
More: NFL mock draft: First-round projection after Super Bowl
Who’s set to cash in during free agency?
Arguably the most interesting case to watch is what happens with Nick Foles. The Eagles quarterback has a mutual option that could make him a free agent (though he could receive the franchise tag) and appealing option for other QB-needy teams. After him, it could be two pass rushers – Demarcus Lawrence of the Cowboys and Jadeveon Clowney of the Texans – who are almost certain to command huge contract figures if they become free agents. One other notable player to watch: Saints quarterback Teddy Bridgewater could come at a bargain for a team looking to add a veteran passer.
Who will be next season’s Patrick Mahomes?
The Chiefs quarterback dazzled in 2018, his first season as a starter after sitting most of last season, and won the league’s MVP award. Though each of the five first-round rookie quarterbacks this season eventually became starters for their squads, they all showed they have plenty of room to grow. Of those rookies, Baker Mayfield of the Browns and Sam Darnold of the Jets — who both will be working under new head coaches — could be the most likely to take the next step. Both progressed and improved as the year wore on, and most importantly, minimized mistakes and played efficiently.
What’s next in the push for more diversity in coaching and front office hires?
The league has taken on some criticism after five black head coaches were fired during or following the 2018 season. Out of eight open jobs, just one – the Dolphins, who hired Brian Flores – went to a minority candidate. Though there are many factors at play, diversity in leadership positions among the NFL’s franchises is clearly a weakness that needs addressing. Goodell mentioned the need for a “deeper pool of candidates,” but that alone may not solve the problem, as many point to the lack of second chances given to minority head coaches who are fired. The league vowed to continue working with the Fritz Pollard Alliance and said it would hold a summit in June at Morehouse College. Still, it’s clear plenty of work needs to be done.
Which new coaches will be primed for the most success?
Out of the eight new head coaches, two in particular may be lined up for success thanks in part to the quarterbacks they are inheriting. Matt LaFleur could have the top draw as he gets to work with Aaron Rodgers in Green Bay, though the Packers certainly have some roster holes to fill. Freddie Kitchens, who was elevated to the Browns' top job after serving as interim offensive coordinator last season, has a great relationship with Mayfield and brought in former Cardinals head coach Steve Wilks to be the defensive coordinator. With plenty of young talent on both sides of the ball, Cleveland may even push for a playoff spot.
How will injured stars fare in their returns?
Panthers quarterback Cam Newton had surgery on his throwing shoulder, but coach Ron Rivera said the procedure was "as minimally invasive as possible." Eagles quarterback Carson Wentz missed Philadelphia’s last five games (including the playoffs) with a stress fracture in his back. 49ers quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo is recovering from a torn anterior cruciate ligament. One other player to watch here is Redskins quarterback Alex Smith, who suffered a gruesome leg fracture and then, per multiple reports, sustained an infection following the surgery. NFL Network reported that Washington was preparing as though Smith would miss all of 2019, though team president Bruce Allen called that “nonsense.” Still, Smith faces a long road to recovery. 
Follow Lorenzo Reyes on Twitter @LorenzoGReyes.
 
