NEW YORK — CBS trotted out the big guns for its Super Bowl news conference on Thursday: Jim Nantz, Tony Romo, Tracy Wolfson, Bill Cowher, James Brown — and Jo Ann Ross.
Wait, who?
Well, Ross is a big gun too: She sells hundreds of millions in Super Bowl advertising.
“She cannot be called Bill Belichick,” Brown said in introducing her, “but Billie Jean Belichick.”
Ross, who is president and chief advertising revenue officer, took the bait.
“Belichick has been to eight” as a head coach, she said, “and so I’m right on his heels in regards to selling the game. This will be my sixth Super Bowl in charge of sales. What I do have over the coach is I look really good in a cutoff hoodie.”
Ross then addressed the big-gun talent who’d spoken earlier: “Your star power and consistent delivery every week on the air makes my job easier — not easy, but easier — to bring in the big bucks.”
And big bucks are rolling in: 30-second spots are selling somewhere in a neighborhood above $5 million.
“Today I am happy to report that we are in great shape,” she said. “We never say the game is sold out. It is almost sold out. I can tell you we are over 90 percent sold” for Feb. 3.
Related: Anheuser-Busch 'to bet even bigger' with Super Bowl LIII ad buy
“We have a mix of evergreen advertisers who come back every year,” she said, “and we have some newcomers.”
Ross said she is unable to reveal some advertisers because of nondisclosure agreements. She said CBS has signed more of those this time than when the network last had the game three years ago.
“Important categories for us are beer, soda, auto, movie studios and tech, very well represented in the game,” she said. “A lot of those categories have multiple units. Clients who I think you all know: A-B, Pepsi, Doritos — my favorite, Avocados from Mexico — and Weather Tech are just a view of the names of those who are returning.”
A-B is short for Anheuser-Busch, which got something of an endorsement from the podium. Ross said she and her sales team never relax until the Super Bowl is over. And then, she said, “we’ll be having lots of Anheuser-Busch.”
 
 
 
