NFL free agency officially kicks off on Wednesday, but a good portion of the top players available already have deals lined up.
With the opening of the tampering window on Monday, dozens of highly sought-after free agents are already spoken for (though they're free to back out until the deals become official, as was the case with Vikings linebacker Anthony Barr and his decision to back out on the Jets). Several standouts, however, have yet to decide on a landing spot.
Stay with USA TODAY Sports throughout the day for updates and analysis on all of the biggest moves.
Signing: Former Falcons RB Tevin Coleman agreed to a two-year, $10 million deal with the 49ers, according to ESPN.
Analysis: Coleman is reunited with 49ers coach Kyle Shanahan, who was Atlanta's offensive coordinator for the first two seasons of the running back's career. He still might end up being a 1A back to Jerick McKinnon, if San Francisco sticks by the running back as he recovers from a torn anterior cruciate ligament, but Coleman can rip off big plays as a runner while creating mismatches in the passing game. - Michael Middlehurst-Schwartz
----
Signing: Redskins RB Adrian Peterson is re-signing with the team on a two-year deal worth $8 million.
Analysis: Peterson turns 34 next week but had a strong season for Washington in 2018, averaging 4.2 yards per carry. He still can be a feast-or-famine runner, as he had four games last year in which he averaged less than 2 yards per attempt, but the offensive line also unraveled late in the year due to injuries. As he continues to recover from a torn anterior cruciate ligament suffered last October, second-year running back Derrius Guice might have to fight for opportunities behind Peterson and all-purpose back Chris Thompson. - Michael Middlehurst-Schwartz
----
Signing: Former Chargers WR Tyrell Williams is set to sign with the Raiders, according to ESPN.
Analysis: Oakland's offensive overhaul didn't end with the addition of Antonio Brown. By adding Williams, Jon Gruden and Mike Mayock have given Derek Carr a proven deep threat who ranked 11th in the NFL in yards per reception last season with 15.9. Carr, however, has had a predisposition for throwing short, so it might take him a while to develop a rapport with Williams. - Michael Middlehurst-Schwartz
----
Signing: Former Seahawks S Earl Thomas (four years, $55 million) and former Saints RB Mark Ingram (three years, $15 million) are both set to sign with the Ravens.
Analysis: After releasing safety Eric Weddle and watching multiple key contributors from the NFL's top-ranked defense depart in free agency, Ravens GM Eric DeCosta is reloading. Thomas steps in for Weddle as the heartbeat of a talented secondary, and his range could have a ripple effect on the rest of the defense if he shows he wasn't slowed significantly by the broken leg he suffered last season. Ingram, meanwhile, should take over the lead job behind Lamar Jackson, though it seems likely Gus Edwards will still have a meaningful role given his success late last season with the dynamic QB.  - Michael Middlehurst-Schwartz
----
Signing: Former Steelers RB Le'Veon Bell agreed to a four-year, $52.5 million deal with the Jets, according to ESPN.
Analysis: The long wait is over, as Bell is set to hit the field again after sitting out the 2018 season. Even with $35 million guaranteed, this deal seemingly falls short of the mega payout he sought during his standoff with the Steelers, as he still trails the Rams' Todd Gurley in average annual salary ($14.37 million to $13.125 million). Expectations for his immediate impact on the offense will be high, as no player since the merger has had more yards from scrimmage per game than Bell (128.9). New York will be counting on him to work himself back into top form quickly, as Sam Darnold will need heavy assistance from him both in the ground game and as a target. - Michael Middlehurst-Schwartz
MORE: Le'Veon Bell's ploy with Steelers didn't pay off in RB's contract with Jets
 
 
