THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — Todd Gurley said he’s got nothing against the Dallas Cowboys, and this week that’s left him in the minority.
“Basically, everybody I know hates the Cowboys,’’ Gurley, star running back for the Los Angeles Rams, said Wednesday. “They been just hitting me up all week. I got to try to take care of business for those guys.’
It appears Gurley, who missed the last two games of the regular season because of inflammation in his left knee, will be in condition to do that when the Rams host the Cowboys on Saturday at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in a divisional playoff matchup.
Gurley said his left knee, which he injured against the Philadelphia Eagles on Dec. 16, felt good during practice Wednesday at the Rams' training facility. He was listed as a limited participant for practice and his official status for the game won't be set until Thursday. But he sounded optimistic when he took questions from reporters.
“I was trying to get full speed, work on accelerating and decelerating,’’ Gurley said, noting that video of his practicing should calm the speculation on social media regarding the health of his knee. “…I don’t have to keep getting tweets and Instagrams all day. They can just watch the video and see how my knee’s doing.’’
The knee looked good to Andrew Whitworth, the Rams’ stalwart left tackle, who added that Gurley looked fresh in practice after the time off.
“It’s exciting to see him out there looking explosive,’’ Whitworth said.
Upon hearing of Whitworth’s praise, Gurley smiled and said, “They was just hyping me up today because I was trying to focus on hitting full speed. ... They was just being some nice good teammates.’’
With Gurley on the sideline during the Rams’ last two games, Rams’ backup running back C.J. Anderson rushed for 167 yards in a victory over the Arizona Cardinals and rushed for 132 yards in a victory over the San Francisco 49ers. But while Anderson drew praise for his physicality, it’s clear Gurley gives the Rams an added dimension when he’s healthy.
“Todd’s just a freak athlete, so much speed and athleticism when he runs,’’ Whitworth said.
Pregame hype has focused in part on the marquee running backs — Gurley vs. Ezekiel Elliott of the Cowboys. But Gurley stressed the more important matchup is between the teams, Rams vs. Cowboys, in Tinsletown, no less.
“Everyone in the world knows that’s 'America’s Team' and it’s a prime-time playoff game,’’ he said. “What better game do you want?’’
Follow USA TODAY Sports' Josh Peter on Twitter @joshlpeter11.
If you love talking football, we have the perfect spot for you. Join our new Facebook Group, The Ruling Off the Field, to engage in friendly debate and conversation with fellow football fans and our NFL insiders.
