Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. The government shutdown is now the longest in history.At midnight on Saturday, the partial shutdown reached 22 days, surpassing the previous record of 21 under the Clinton administration in 1995.President Trump, above, used an Oval Office address and a visit to Texas to push for his long-promised border wall, the central issue of the shutdown. Under pressure from his own party and advisers, the president has backed away from declaring a national emergency to pay for the wall.His aides said they expected the stalemate to be resolved by the time Mr. Trump delivers the State of the Union address on Jan. 29.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. The shutdown’s day-to-day impact on Americans — even those who work for the government — varies radically from workplace to workplace, or even from colleague to colleague. Above, a protest outside the Federal Center in St. Louis.At one research institute in Colorado, for example, some people are employed directly by the federal government and cannot work or be paid, while others are paid by the University of Colorado, Boulder, but are locked out of their federal offices. For a third group that hasn’t been affected, the institute’s director said, it’s: “Shutdown? What shutdown? I am not feeling anything.”Some states are also feeling the impact more than others. We broke down how federal workers in every state are affected.____3. Days after President Trump fired James B. Comey, above center, as F.B.I. director in May 2017, the bureau opened an inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had been working on behalf of Russia against American interests — either knowingly or unwittingly.That inquiry is now under the purview of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, though it’s unclear whether he is still pursuing the matter.On Tuesday, lawyers for Paul Manafort, who was a top official in Mr. Trump’s campaign, accidentally disclosed that Mr. Manafort had shared polling data with a business associate tied to Russian intelligence. “This is the closest thing we have seen to collusion,” said a fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute. “The question now is, did the president know about it?”____4. The American military has begun withdrawing equipment — but not troops — from Syria. Above, an outpost on the edges of Manbij.There is confusion over President Trump’s plans to wind down U.S. involvement in the conflict: Last month, officials said the president intended to pull out American troops within 30 days, but more recently, the national security adviser, John R. Bolton, said the pullout was conditional and American forces could remain in Syria for months or even years.And despite those plans, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a speech in Cairo on Thursday that the U.S. would pursue a more activist policy in the Middle East.____5. Julián Castro is running for president.Mr. Castro, above, a housing secretary in the Obama administration and the former mayor of San Antonio, is one of the highest-profile Latinos to ever seek the Democratic nomination.His speech Saturday announcing his run was firmly progressive: He called for a higher minimum wage, denounced police killings of African-Americans and condemned President Trump’s immigration policy.His first campaign stop will be in Puerto Rico on Monday, and later in the week he will go to New Hampshire.____6. Increasing ocean temperatures kill off marine ecosystems, raise sea levels and make hurricanes more destructive.Now scientists say the world’s oceans are warming far more quickly than previously thought, and as temperatures continue to rise, those effects will become more catastrophic.For its part, America’s carbon dioxide emissions rose by 3.4 percent in 2018, the biggest increase in eight years, according to a preliminary estimate released Tuesday. It seems that a steep drop in coal use wasn’t enough to offset rising emissions in other parts of the economy.____7. Jayme Closs has been found.The 13-year-old Wisconsin girl vanished in October, when the authorities found her parents fatally shot in their rural home. The double killing and disappearance stunned the small town of Barron and drew national attention.In the end, it was Jayme herself who broke the case: She emerged Thursday along a wooded road about an hour from her home and asked for help from a woman out walking her dog.Jayme directed the authorities to a local man, Jake T. Patterson, 21, who is being held pending formal charges of kidnapping and murder.____8. Clemson’s 44-16 victory over top-seeded Alabama gave the Tigers their second national championship in three seasons. Above, offensive lineman Sean Pollard celebrating.The team used some big plays, but the roots of Monday night’s performances were planted months ago, with Coach Dabo Swinney’s gutsy decision to start a freshman quarterback named Trevor Lawrence.With the 2018 college football season behind us, here are seven observations and thoughts to guide us to next season’s kickoff.____9. Panama. Puglia. Perth. Those are three spots on our annual list of 52 Places to Go, the perfect starting point for daydreaming about where to travel next — and you can click around to learn more about each location.One person will see them all: Sebastian Modak, our 52 Places Traveler for 2019. He’ll be starting his journey in Puerto Rico, above, the No. 1 spot on the list.____10. Finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.We examine how R. Kelly has enjoyed fame despite decades of sexual abuse allegations; look at how Representative Steve King wrote the playbook on white identity politics; and talk to female ranchers who are reclaiming the American West.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these eight new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.