[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]CONCORD, N.H. — Senator Cory Booker’s visit to a house party in New Hampshire last month had many hallmarks of a campaign visit. He mingled with guests. He posed for photos. He gave a speech. He stood for more photos.But he did not touch a sprawling table of homemade desserts.“Today I’ve had everything from the winter vegetable salad at one place with brussels sprouts and broccoli. Some raw foods,” Mr. Booker said within eyeshot of the spread of sweets. “It wasn’t all raw — it was quinoa.” He elongated the name as if to emphasize its exoticness. Keen-waaaaah. “Am I pronouncing that right?” (He was.)As Mr. Booker, 49, prepares for an expected 2020 presidential campaign, a former top college football recruit and self-proclaimed first vegan in Senate history has slimmed down to what may be his best shape in years.While Mr. Booker has not yet announced his candidacy, getting in better shape or losing weight ahead of a White House bid — a physically and emotionally taxing endeavor — is hardly uncommon, with Jeb Bush and Chris Christie the most recent examples.Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, another likely 2020 candidate, posted a photograph of her birthday workout on a Pilates Reformer machine from when she turned 52 last month. A few days earlier, she had shared a picture of her bulging her biceps at the gym, hoisting two 17.5-pound weights overhead.“Lead like a girl,” her shirt read.Both Mr. Booker and Ms. Gillibrand, also a former college athlete, waved off suggestions that their physiques had anything to do with presidential fitness, and it’s true that they have both lost dozens of pounds in the past.“My goal is to turn 50 in some of the best shape of my life,” Mr. Booker said. “It has nothing to do with any other plans.”Ms. Gillibrand declined to be interviewed for this story, but did say after a recent event in Brooklyn, “My health has always been important. And I think it’s an issue for most working moms just how can we integrate our health into our daily lives. That’s what it’s been about for me.”So far, among potential 2020 candidates, the two senators from New York and New Jersey have followed in the lightened footsteps of the likes of Mr. Bush. And in a race that could be cleaved along generational lines, the (relative) youth of Mr. Booker and Ms. Gillibrand could be an asset as they contend with some better-known rivals who are in their 70s or close to it, like the former vice president Joseph R. Biden Jr., or Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. And, like it or not, being physically fit can project as youth.In early January, Frank Biden, Mr. Biden’s brother, bragged about the former vice president’s prowess in the weight room. “Joe benches 185 for repetition,” Frank said on Michael Smerconish’s radio talk show. “The image of him on the bench with gritted teeth and powering through that last rep is a very accurate one.”A long history exists of candidates preparing for a presidential run not just by making early-state contacts and fund-raising calls but also with gym visits and calorie counting.In 2015, Mr. Bush declared for president far leaner than he had been during two terms as Florida governor. He talked regularly about how his “Paleo diet” helped him shed “40 pounds in six months,” as he revealed in an interview at a Dairy Queen in Iowa.In 2013, Mr. Christie, then the New Jersey governor, underwent weight loss surgery ahead of his 2016 run.Back in 2011, Haley Barbour, the former governor of Mississippi, liked to joke that one could track his likelihood of running for president by tracking his weight loss. He did not lose much weight; he did not run.The Rev. Al Sharpton, who was heavyset when he ran for president in 2004, said he has noticed both Ms. Gillibrand and Mr. Booker’s thinning profiles.Recently, Mr. Sharpton, the civil rights leader who lost about 175 pounds, met privately with Ms. Gillibrand before a joint news conference. She marveled at his ability to keep the weight off. He returned the compliment, telling her she was “looking even sharper” of late, Mr. Sharpton recalled.“And she says, ‘Well, reverend, you’ve got to always watch what you do.’ So I was saying, ‘Yes, especially if you have other plans.’ She said, ‘We’ll talk about that another time,’” Mr. Sharpton said of their exchange. “I was trying to bait her into telling me if she was going to run. But she did not give that away.”All jokes aside, he said that a candidate’s weight can shape voter perception.“Optics are important in politics,” Mr. Sharpton said. “And I think it does not hurt to look fit, because people want people that they feel take themselves seriously if they’re going to put the affairs of the state in their hands.”In the past, Ms. Gillibrand has been open about her weight. In 2012 she detailed her hour-by-hour daily diet for Self magazine (“Snack: 10 almonds”), after losing 40 pounds after the birth of her second child.She devoted a chapter about her body and gender expectations in her book, including sexist commentary congressional colleagues said to her (“You know, Kirsten, you’re even pretty when you’re fat” and “Don’t lose too much weight now. I like my girls chubby”).“I don’t like being judged on my looks and, frankly, I’d like to spend less time thinking about my appearance, but there it is,” she wrote. But she came to see the benefit of opening up about her weight battles. “I’d always wanted voters to know that I’m a tenacious person, and what finally convinced them was that I’d possessed the determination to lose 50 pounds.”Mr. Booker and Ms. Gillibrand are close (on his birthday last year, she hand-delivered him a carrot vegan cupcake) even if they are on an expected collision course later this year. “She and I definitely have a mutual affirmation encouragement friendship,” Mr. Booker explained in New Hampshire.For years, Mr. Booker, too, has documented on social media what he called his “up and down, up and down, up and down” weight battles. He has been a vegetarian for more than 25 years and became a vegan more recently.He has intermittently fasted and eaten loads of vegetables of late. “For me, it’s not complicated and most all of us know it. Just try not to eat the empty carbs, the sugar,” he said.Some in his circle recall a brief foray into an all-potato diet (yes, that is really a thing). His staff declined to confirm or comment on any potato period.But Mr. Booker cannot deny his adoration for roasted cauliflower, which he photographed and posted to Instagram in March. “I find myself more and more rejoicing in the delicious simplicity of a whole food, plant-based diet,” he wrote then.Reminded of the picture, Mr. Booker said that he did “remember the cauliflower.” It wasn’t even on Mr. Booker’s plate that day; he was fasting.