The blackface performances that 68-year-old Bernie Oakley remembers from the 1960s weren’t held during booze-fueled college fraternity parties. They were held at fund-raisers for local schools. And his father, who considered himself an anti-racist Sunday school teacher, was the M.C.Mr. Oakley was one of about 75 readers who wrote to tell us about their memories of witnessing or participating in blackface or other racist behavior when they were young.After Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia admitted, then denied, being in a photo that included someone in blackface and that appeared in his medical school yearbook, we asked readers to tell us about similar memories.((Read more about the presence of blackface and other racist imagery in college yearbooks.))Many recalled seeing or participating in racist activities at school, where it was sanctioned by adult role models, when they were children.Their memories, spanning seven decades from 1940 to 2010, chronicle the evolution and persistence of racist episodes within schools and among groups of children.Several described struggling to reconcile their enjoyment of those things with their anti-racist beliefs and to unlearn what they were taught.Here are some of their responses, which have been lightly edited and condensed for clarity. In the comments, tell us if you have similar memories as a child, and how they affect you today.(In some instances, we have replaced a common racist slur with _____.)My mother, my sister and I spent the entire summer of 1942 in Mississippi. I recall vividly boarding an empty bus with my younger sister en route to our house after a day at camp. After paying our fare, we plopped down in seats four or five rows behind the driver. He promptly motioned for us to move to the most forward seats near him, like a teacher admonishing us for talking in class. We soon learned why.The bus filled to the brim with black people, who all had to sit or stand behind the only white people on the bus: two kids, 10 and 11 years old.The unfairness of this did penetrate my young mind. I was fortunate to spend most of my life in a Northeast university environment, where admissions of blacks in the 1960s forced me to confront, in myself, the intrinsic and often unconscious prejudices we Northerners carry.But even now, in retirement at age 88, the blackface stories from Virginia and elsewhere are giving me angst. I really did enjoy the comedy of earlier years; remember Rochester in the Jack Benny show?We laughed and felt no animosity toward blacks, but now — helped by the current news — I can see that we were unaware of how hurtful the stereotyping would be to a person of color.In the late 50s, when I was 8 or 9 years old, I remember attending minstrel shows put on as fund-raisers for schools. My father was the M.C. of these shows. They were a very popular event in my hometown, Burlington, N.C.On the stage would be a line of people sitting in chairs. Each person would have a talent that they would perform for the show. At each end of the line were two white men in blackface who would tell slightly off-color jokes in an exaggerated, Southern, black dialect.I enjoyed the shows. They were very entertaining.Of course, I now know how offensive those portrayals of black men really were. They were the perfect example of black men being depicted as not-very-smart clowns.At the time I was proud of my father. He was a Sunday school teacher in our Methodist church. From a very early age, he taught me to reject the racial discrimination and segregation in our town.I told my 40-year-old son the story of the minstrel shows a week ago. He was surprised to find his grandfather’s role was so prominent. He only knew my dad as a very liberal Democrat who loved to make fun of conservative Republicans.I was a 12-year-old kid at my cousins’ school-sanctioned minstrel show near Providence, R.I., where many kids were in blackface. I thought nothing of it, because like legions of others back then, I lacked the sensitivity to understand how hurtful that behavior could be.But when is this witch hunt that started in Virginia going to end? We’ve all done insensitive things, but it seems if we all want some tender mercy for our own misdeeds, we better be willing to give some.I am from a small town in Minnesota. When I was a preschooler in the 1950s, we all sang the ubiquitous “Ring Around the Rosy” that ended with “Last one down is a _____baby.” I am horrified that we were ever taught this version. I am aghast to this day.In 1963, when I was in seventh grade in Lake Arrowhead, Calif., I had a minor role in a high-school production of a play about Helen Keller. I wore black makeup on my face and the back of my hands and was taught to speak my lines in a warped Southern “slave” accent.There were no black students in our school nor any black families in the district, but the teacher/director chose to leave the parts in and find kids to play them. While the makeup was not exaggerated blackface, it was apparent that I was a white kid in makeup.I wanted to be a part of the show and accepted the role as all I would get after not being chosen to play Helen Keller. I felt false. I never believed in the accuracy or authenticity of my character. But being part of the magic of a theatrical production made me decide to do it.I feel sorry now. We should have made the teacher change the role.During the summers, my main entertainment in hot, very humid New Orleans was swimming at a pool.After legislation deemed that the city pools had to become integrated, the local government decided to close them. The bigotry affected every citizen whose right to utilize the pools had been taken away. I have no interest in ever returning to New Orleans because despite its marvelous cuisine and rich historical sights it left me with sad and embarrassing memories.When I was growing up in southern Louisiana in the 1970s, the word “_____” was used nearly every day around me. When an adult had to develop an alternate way of accomplishing something/making it work, especially if it looked bad or was done in a “lazy” way, it was always termed “_____-rigged.”I am a proud inventor as an adult woman. I love problem-solving and learning about electronics, machine or car repair because I am very curious. But 40 years later, my inescapable first thought is to call it “_____-rigging.”I was also taught to sing “Eeny Meeny Miny Mo” to include “catch a _____ by the toe.”I don’t know how I escaped this indoctrination. It’s plainly and simply disgusting to me today.My high school — South High School in Denver, Colorado — had Johnny Reb as our mascot. Confederate flags flew at all of our school events.I have a picture of my car in our senior year homecoming parade with a purple Confederate flag painted on the hood. NO adult (parents, teacher or otherwise) in my life thought to clue me in to how racist this was.This still angers me and pains me. I can only imagine what black students and their parents at my school experienced and felt about all of this.I remember being in fourth grade in West Seneca, N.Y., and having to race the only kid of color in our school for P.E. class. I was not popular; I was fat, and awkward. But this kid, because he was poor and black, was less liked than I.When the race began, a couple of kids held onto his shirt and started singing “Fight, fight, the _____ and the white, one is black and the other is right.” The P.E. teacher stopped the race, and we had to start all over again.I don’t remember if anyone was reprimanded for what happened. But it was so unsettling that it has stuck with me 35 years later. I don’t think this young boy stayed at my school for much longer. I often wonder what happened to him. It makes me sad.We were driving back to Maryland through Pennsylvania in 1996 after a family visit; I was about 8 years old. I saw a large cross on fire that stood in stark contrast to the night sky.I thought it was beautiful and pointed it out, thinking it was something done to show religious pride. My mother told me it was the work of evil men, men who were not Christlike at all in their violence and hate. I didn’t even know what the K.K.K. was.How sad it is that nobody taught me about racism or slavery or civil rights before then. It makes me feel ashamed of myself for not being a more curious child, and shame on my community for keeping us in a state of ignorance until we were “old enough to understand and not be traumatized by it.”Indigenous students were treated very poorly in my entire public school experience in Bismarck, N.D.Some kids from my school made T-shirts for a football game against another school with a high indigenous population.The slogan on the shirt read “Pack the Bowl, Clear the Rez.” It showed a pipe being cleaned out over the Bismarck Community Bowl, the field where they played homecoming games, and racist drawings of indigenous people falling out onto the field.“Clear the Rez” was a particularly chilling thing to invoke in a state with a history of forced assimilation and genocide of indigenous folks.Ask any non-Native American adult in Bismarck for their best impression of an “Indian voice.” Almost everyone there will give you the exact same racist skit about people from the town of Fort Yates. It is so normalized there that I had no idea people everywhere in the United States didn’t feel like that.After going to school at Bismarck High, I had to unpack and unlearn some awful phrases and attitudes. Even though I knew these things were racist, it was hard to get them out of my mind for years.My parents raised me to stand up for people being picked on, but I didn’t do it as much as I should have. Sometimes I would argue, but I was a gay transgender kid in a very hostile town to that, and as much as I tried to stand up for everyone, I really failed at that sometimes. I am deeply ashamed.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.