PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — Tiger Woods said the pain in his neck is gone.
He's confident his putter will be healthy again, too.
"I feel good on both," Woods said Tuesday after he bopped around the TPC Sawgrass Stadium Course's back nine ahead of Thursday's start of The Players Championship, the PGA Tour's flagship event.
"The putting feels so much better as I feel better," Woods added. "That kind of goes hand in hand. Just like my golf swing. If my back's aching, then I'm not hitting the ball hard and it's not going very far, and I've hit some squirrelly shots."
Woods was troubled on those two fronts last month as a neck sprain popped up in Los Angeles during the Genesis Open and badgered him the following week during the WGC-Mexico Championship.
Golf news: Latest news and notes from GolfWeek
The discomfort forced him to withdraw from last week's Arnold Palmer Invitational. And after recording 11 three-putts and one four-putt in the two events, his putting woes drove him to seek the help of putting coach Matt Killen.
Last week's rest, however, and a few days of practice have Woods feeling upbeat as he heads into skirmish against both a loaded field and a course known for dispensing carnage. Still, Woods, 43, will remain focused on keeping his body — and with it, his putting and all parts of his game — strong.
He has no choice after his spinal fusion surgery in April 2017, the most recent of his four back operations. Last year, neck pain was an irritant at both the British Open and in the FedExCup Playoffs and he's well aware his future will hold both good and bad weeks.
"That's just because my lower back is fused, and so the stress has to go somewhere if I don't have movement, and so it's very important for me going forward since the surgery to keep pliable or else the stress is going to go somewhere else," Woods said. "I've got to keep the back moving, even though it's fixed. I've got to stay fit, I've got to stay on it, and have to stay as loose as I possibly can for as long as I play out here.
"It's just part of the nature of the sport. If you have force, it's got to go somewhere. If it's not my lower back, it's going to be in the hip. I have had four knee operations. It's got to go somewhere. We're not immune to having the forces go somewhere. Eventually on a repetitive sport, you're going to wear out something."
Tiger Woods: Neck injury 'wasn't fun,' but feeling good for Players Championship
For now, Woods is feeling good about this week and the rest of the season. While his concentration is on The Players, which has attracted all 50 of the top 50 players in the world, he said he'd play in the WGC-Dell Technologies Match Play in two weeks.
When asked about net week's Valspar Championship, Woods was hesitant and said he just want to get through this week.
Despite the disjointed season — he played 72 holes in three days at the storm-delayed Genesis Open, dealt with elevation challenges in Mexico City, withdrew from last week's tournament and is now working with a putting coach — Woods has no concerns about finding the rhythm he seeks with the Masters looming in four weeks.
He said he's right on schedule heading to Magnolia Lane. And he's trending in the right direction - he finished in a tie for 20th in his first event in the Farmers Insurance Open, tied for 15th in the Genesis and tied for 10th in Mexico.
"The Players will be a great test and keep me going forward," Woods said. "I've played three tournaments this year so far, and that's about right. I was going to play three or four. If I would have gotten my rounds in last week, it would have been four tournaments, so I'm right there where I need to be.
"My finishes are getting a little bit better each and every time I've gone out so far this year, and I've gotten a little bit more consistent with my play.
"Everything is back on track."
 
