USA TODAY Sports is counting down the top 10 candidates on the 2019 Baseball Hall of Fame ballot in advance of the Jan. 22 election results. The countdown is based on voting by our power rankings panel, which includes five Hall voters.
He weathered 18 seasons pitching in the American League East and famously finished with a flourish: Winning the final start of his career for his first, and only, 20-win season.
Now, Mussina is poised for a similar finishing kick in his drive for Cooperstown.
A massive leap in his third year on the ballot – from 24.6% to 43% - jolted life into a flagging candidacy; clearing the 63% mark in 2018 makes Mussina a virtual shoo-in for election.
With every passing year, his credentials only look stronger.
Mussina has 270 wins, five All-Star appearances and a sturdy 83 Wins Above Replacement (greater than Nolan Ryan and Tom Glavine) to his credit, but the fixation always seems to be what he doesn’t have.
No Cy Young awards. No World Series championships, even though he hitched a ride on the three-time defending champion New York Yankees’ train as a free agent, yet never earned a ring.
That first season with the Yankees, however, speaks volumes about why Mussina is viewed far more favorably through a modern lens.
His leap from the Baltimore Orioles to the Yankees was already viewed with some cynicism. The rich were merely getting richer, after all, as Mussina was joining a staff already fronted by the playoff-tested Roger Clemens, Andy Pettitte and Orlando “El Duque” Hernandez.
For six years and nearly $89 million, Mussina signed up for a World Series run knowing he may not have to do the heavy lifting.
And the Cy Young voting that season reflected that: Clemens ran away with the award on the strength of a 20-3 win-loss record.
Mussina finished fifth, his 17 wins fewer than Clemens, Mark Mulder and Seattle teammates Freddy Garcia and Jamie Moyer.
Yet Mussina would likely win in a runaway were that election held today.
Earned-run average should have been a good enough tip-off: Mussina 3.15, Clemens 3.51. Yet Mussina also led the AL in Fielding Independent Pitching, his 2.92 mark easily bettering No. 3 Clemens’ 3.29 He had the superior WHIP (1.06) of the quintet.
And finally, his adjusted ERA of 143 blew away Clemens (128) and everyone else. Through the 2018 lens, it’s Mussina by a lot.
While that’s just one isolated season, his overall body of work also shines brighter.
Mussina’s career FIP – a stat that isolates outcomes a pitcher has the most control over – of 3.57 shaves just a bit off his career ERA of 3.68. Yet there are several seasons where his FIP is around 8-10% lower than his ERA, and the statistic also helps contextualize Mussina’s skills while pitching through the teeth of the so-called steroid era.
From 1999-2002, pitching in hitter-friendly Camden Yards and Yankee Stadium, Mussina posted a pedestrian 3.62 ERA. His FIP, however, was a far more palatable 3.33, reflecting a pitcher who was giving up barely more than a baserunner per inning (1.17 WHIP). The only pitchers with superior FIPs in that span were Hall of Famers Randy Johnson, Tom Glavine and Greg Maddux, likely Hall of Famer Curt Schilling, Kevin Brown and Derek Lowe.
Only Johnson (37.6), Martinez (33.9) and Schilling (24.4) amassed more WAR among pitchers than Mussina’s 23.9 in those final four seasons before Major League Baseball instituted drug testing.
 His ERA-plus in that span was 126, and his career mark of 133 ties him for 87th all time, on even footing as Hall of Famers Juan Marichal and Bob Feller.
Well, we touched on much of it above, most notably the lack of a “signature” season or team accomplishment. Mussina certainly did plenty to merit a championship ring in 2001 – the Cy Young-caliber season, followed by a postseason where he quietly contributed to significant Yankee lore. Trailing 2-0 to Oakland in the ALDS, Mussina helped stave off elimination by pitching seven shutout innings in Game 3, better known as the Derek Jeter “flip” game.
He also beat the Mariners in that ALCS before Arizona beat him in Game 1 of the World Series. In Game 5, Mussina gave up two runs over eight innings before Scott Brosius erased a 2-0 deficit with his stunning game-tying home run off Byung-hyun Kim; the Yankees would win in 11 innings to take a 3-2 Series lead.
Had slam-dunk 2019 Hall inductee Mariano Rivera not blown a Game 7 save, Mussina would have his ring. Instead, that October-November is yet another period where Mussina ended up on history’s periphery.
Overall, Mussina was a solid playoff performer, posting a 3.42 ERA, a 1.10 WHIP and striking out 145 batters in 139 2/3 innings. His durability was remarkable – 11 seasons of at least 200 innings pitched, including 200 on the nose in his final season, at age 39.
His career spanned several eras, sticking around long enough to log four solid seasons after baseball embraced drug testing with penalties.
Mussina has waited his turn. The greatest pitchers of his era – Maddux, Glavine, Martinez and Johnson – have had their day in Cooperstown. Now, it is just he and Schilling, who presents a similarly compelling resume but also has hurt his case with intolerant social media behavior.
Mussina has garnered 82% of publicly-revealed ballots, according to Ryan Thibodaux’s ballot tracker, and is projected to earn induction this year.
It will be close, however: Private ballots are always less generous, and Mussina should land right around the 75% required.
That’s largely immaterial, though. Mussina will get in, likely this year alongside Rivera, or next year alongside Jeter.
So while he may play second fiddle yet again to more notorious Yankees, Mussina will not be denied his Cooperstown moment.
 
 
 
 
 
