USA TODAY Sports is counting down the top 10 candidates on the 2019 Baseball Hall of Fame ballot in advance of the Jan. 22 election results. The countdown is based on voting by our power rankings panel, which includes five Hall voters.
At 56, Clemens occupies an interesting space along the spectrum of retired stars: Not quite a pariah, yet still far from being able to sign his autograph, “Roger Clemens – HOF.”
He’s hardly hiding from public view, but largely lurking in safe spaces. You’ll see him helping distribute 1,600 meals to Houston-area families in need before Thanksgiving. Or attending one of the many games his baseball-playing sons are competing in. Every once in a while, when asked, he’ll stump for his stalled Hall of Fame candidacy.
His default response is to insist his inability to earn election to the Hall – almost certainly due to his links to performance-enhancing drug use via baseball’s Mitchell Report – does not consume him. That he’s fine either way.
That viewpoint would put him in the slimmest minority of ballplayers, many of whom are overcome with emotion when they get that call – no matter how expected - from Cooperstown.
The guess here is that deep down, Clemens, too, cherishes the validation that comes with the game’s highest honor.
He has just four shots at claiming it.
The odds are against any pitcher ever again producing as overwhelming a Hall of Fame case as Clemens’. Beyond the record seven Cy Young Awards, he amassed 354 wins and ranks third all-time in both strikeouts (4,672) and Wins Above Replacement (139). His somewhat pedestrian 3.12 career ERA – which ranks 216th all-time – is counter-balanced by an adjusted ERA of 143, which ranks 12th all-time and would rank sixth among current Hall of Famers.
Clemens claimed seven ERA titles, five strikeout crowns and six 20-win seasons. Twice, he struck out 20 batters in a game. He was an 11-time All-Star.
And his career spanned several eras, beginning in the middle of a decade that saw a dearth of dominant starting pitchers, burrowing through several high marks of offense and the teeth of the so-called steroid era.
Of course, Clemens’ alleged participation in that era is the only strike against him.
MORE 
Baseball’s Mitchell Report gave names, dates and places to whispers that Clemens’ late-career renaissance was chemically enhanced. Clemens never equivocated in his denials of PED use, all the way through congressional hearings and, later, a federal trial that he lied to that congressional committee.
Clemens was ultimately found not guilty on charges of obstructing congress, making false statements in a deposition and perjury; he settled a defamation lawsuit that McNamee filed against him for an undisclosed sum to be paid by Clemens’ insurer.  
Where does that leave Clemens’ Hall of Fame candidacy? Well, for anti-PED absolutists, it remains a non-starter. For those more tolerant, it’s a little easier.
Nothing in the Mitchell Report alleges Clemens used PEDs throughout his career. And his body of work entering the 1998 season – when McNamee alleges he first injected Clemens with steroids – was arguably Hall of Fame worthy already, with four Cy Young Awards and 213 victories.
Clemens and Barry Bonds are more or less joined at the hip in their Hall candidacies, and have enjoyed upticks in support – Clemens debuted at 37.6% in 2013 and rose to 57.3% last season. Certainly, a change in the electorate is helping both players, but so, too, are decisions made by both the Baseball Writers’ Assn. of America and the Today’s Game committee.
The latter group inducted former Commissioner Bud Selig – who presided over the teeth of the game’s steroid era – in Selig’s first year of eligibility. That prompted a boost in support for Bonds and Clemens from voters who thought it absurd Selig had a plaque in Cooperstown and Bonds and Clemens did not.
Last month, that committee elected very borderline candidates Harold Baines and Lee Smith. It’s likely DH Edgar Martinez earns induction this year.
And in three more years, voters may yet give a pass to David Ortiz and vote Big Papi into Cooperstown – even though he reportedly tested positive for a PED in anonymous 2003 testing.
With all these questionable cases floating into the Hall, won’t it grow harder for voters to bar Clemens and Bonds? You’d think.
That Hall call won’t come this year – Clemens is currently receiving 73% of support on publicly released ballots as curated by @NotMrTibbs, and both he and Bonds suffer significantly when private ballots are added to the total.
But the path to 75% may be there. Should Clemens clear the 60% mark this year, that would give him three more strikes to play with for his plaque.
That one strike against his candidacy is still proving difficult to overcome.
 
