Corrections and clarifications: In an earlier version of this story, an extra World Series championship was included among Frank Robinson's accomplishments. Robinson won two World Series, both with the Baltimore Orioles.
Hall of Fame outfielder Frank Robinson, who made major league baseball history as the first African-American manager, is in poor health, close friends of Robinson told USA TODAY Sports.
The friends were granted anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly as the family has requested privacy.
Robinson, 83, has been in hospice care for several months in Southern California.  
Robinson, a 14-time All-Star, had a legendary career. He was the Rookie of the Year in 1956 when he hit a rookie-record 38 homers for the Cincinnati Reds, won the Triple Crown in 1966 with the Baltimore Orioles, and remains the only player to win an MVP award in each league -- with the Reds in 1961 and the Orioles in 1966. He also led his teams to two World Series titles, winning with  the Orioles in 1966, when he also was voted the World Series MVP, and 1970.
Robinson, who had his greatest years with the Reds and Orioles, played 21 years in the major leagues before retiring in 1976 with 586 home runs. It was the fourth-highest total in baseball at the time, trailing only Hank Aaron, Babe Ruth and Willie Mays. The longest of those home runs came on May 8, 1966, when his 541-foot blast off Luis Tiant cleared Memorial Stadium in Baltimore.
He continued to influence the game long after retirement, becoming the first African-American to manage in the major leagues, with the Cleveland Indians. He also managed the San Francisco Giants, becoming the National League’s first African-American manager, and later managed the Orioles, Montreal Expos and Washington Nationals. He compiled a 1065-1176 (.475) record over parts of 16 seasons, winning the 1989 AL Manager of the Year award with the Orioles.
He spent the last 12 years working for the Commissioner’s office mostly as a vice president, and later as a senior advisor to Commissioner Rob Manfred.
