Manny Machado's long free agency process has come to an end, as the star infielder has agreed to a 10-year, $300 million deal with the San Diego Padres, a person with knowledge of the situation told USA TODAY Sports.
The person spoke on the condition of anonymity because the deal had not yet been announced.
Machado's deal is the biggest free agent contract in baseball history, overtaking the 10-year, $275 million deal that Alex Rodriguez signed with the Yankees after the 2007 season.
Along with Bryce Harper, Machado was one of the most coveted free agents this offseason. 
Machado spent the second half of the 2018 season with the Dodgers, acquired in a trade over the All-Star break. He hit 13 homers in 66 games for the Dodgers, struggling at times after a monster first half (24 HR, .963 OPS) with the Orioles. Machado played in all 16 of the Dodgers' postseason games, batting .227 with three homers and 12 RBI, including a 4-for-22 showing in the World Series.
However, his behavior often made headlines over his on-field accomplishments, and many questioned whether that might affect which teams wooed him and how much they were willing to pay. In October, Machado kicked Milwaukee Brewers first baseman Jesus Aguilar in the leg, said he'll never be “Johnny Hustle’’ during a pregame interview on Fox after refusing to run hard to first base, and made lewd gestures on the field.
There were only a few teams willing to spend at least $300 million for the mercurial star and villain of this postseason.
ANALYSIS:What the Padres are a good fit for Machado
SHOW ME THE MONEY:Do monster deals work out?
A four-time All-Star, the 26-year-old is a generational talent on the left side of the infield with two top-five Most Valuable Player finishes under his belt.
Machado was selected third overall in the 2010 draft and made his big-league debut on Aug. 9, 2012 at 20. With J. J. Hardy at shortstop for the Orioles, Machado played 51 games at third base and helped Baltimore reach the postseason for the first time since 1997.
In 2013, his first full season, Machado finished ninth in American League MVP voting, batting .283 with 51 doubles and won his first Gold Glove award at third base. Machado suffered a knee injury down the stretch in 2014 that required surgery and kept him from playing during the Orioles' run to the ALCS.
 
 
