A historic season resulted in a historic raise for Jacob deGrom.
DeGrom received the largest arbitration raise in Major League Baseball history by agreeing to a $17 million deal for 2019, according to a source. DeGrom, the reigning National League Cy Young winner, received a $9.6 million raise, which just beats out the reported $9.5 million raise Boston's Mookie Betts will receive. It's also the largest salary for any third-time arbitration-eligible player.
DeGrom put himself in position to receive such a sizable raise by producing one of the best seasons in MLB history this past year. The 30-year-old went 10-9 with an MLB-best 1.70 ERA spanning 32 starts, and set several major league records.
This deal can be considered a win-win for both sides since deGrom will finally be paid a reasonable figure, and it doesn't hurt the Mets to show some good will while the parties are willing to negotiate a long-term deal to keep deGrom in Flushing.
While an official long-term offer has not been made, per a source, both sides have expressed interest in extending their partnership. DeGrom's contract is up after 2020, and he is willing to stay provided the Mets fairly compensate him.
The Mets have said they want to extend deGrom, and this is a good first step. DeGrom only made $7.6 million last season, and the Mets decided to avoid arbitration, which can result in some hurt feelings since the team has to highlight the player's flaws.
An extension that buys out deGrom's first three years of free agency seems like a workable template, and it could cost the Mets in the $125 million range. The Mets do not have any long-term deals on their books and can afford to pay deGrom a large salary.
Mets general manager Brodie Van Wagenen has to recuse himself from discussions involving deGrom since he used to serve as deGrom's agent.
Fellow starting pitcher Noah Syndergaard also avoided arbitration by agreeing to a deal worth $6 million according to a source, and Zack Wheeler also avoided arbitration by agreeing to a deal worth $5.975 million with a $25,000 All-Star bonus, per a source. 
Catcher Travis d'Arnaud previously settled for $3.515 million while Michael Conforto, and Steven Matz are also arbitration eligible.
While Syndergaard did not receive as large of an increase as Syndergaard, his salary more than doubled after he earned only $2.975 million last season.
Wheeler also raised a sizable raise after earning only $1.9 million this past season, and is entering the final year of his contract. The righty finished the year strong, and the Mets are optimistic he can carry that success into the upcoming season. 
D'Arnaud received a $40,000 raise.
The Mets are a file and trial team and go to arbitration with any players they do not come to terms with before the deadline.
 
