A federal judge in Manhattan on Tuesday sentenced three men in a college basketball fraud case to between six and nine months in prison, lenient sentences that the judge said were nonetheless important to deter the funneling of money to the families of college basketball prospects — an N.C.A.A. violation that a jury found last year also constituted a felony.
The sentences come ahead of a second trial next month at which more may be revealed about how widespread the rot in recruiting has spread.
James Gatto, the former head of global basketball marketing at Adidas, was sentenced to nine months by U.S. District Court Judge Lewis A. Kaplan. Merl Code Jr., another former Adidas employee, and Christian Dawkins, an aspiring agent, were given six months each. Code and Dawkins, who are also defendants in next month’s trial, were ordered to pay restitution of a little more than $28,000 each, with Gatto’s amount of restitution still to be determined.
Kaplan ruled that the punishments would not go into effect until the appeal process is completed. The defendants have two weeks to ask the federal circuit court to re-examine the case.
A jury convicted the three men last fall of defrauding the University of Louisville and, in Gatto’s case, also North Carolina State University and the University of Kansas. The men participated in a scheme in which the families of highly rated men’s basketball recruits were offered money in exchange for pledges to play for one of those teams, which are sponsored by Adidas. Prosecutors argued that by unknowingly making the universities vulnerable to N.C.A.A. sanctions, the defendants had victimized the schools.
Such offers are barred by N.C.A.A. rules, which require that college athletes adhere to the association’s policy of amateurism and not be compensated for their participation in their sport beyond a scholarship and related costs of attendance.
Repercussions from the charges brought by the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York have already included the firing of a Hall of Fame coach — Rick Pitino, formerly of Louisville, who denies wrongdoing and whom prosecutors did not charge. A Kansas player was ruled ineligible early this year after his connection to the scheme came to light.
The lawyers for Code and Dawkins welcomed the sentence.
“Happy might be the wrong word, but the judge granted a lenient sentence,” said Steve Haney, who represents Dawkins.
Haney also promised that the second trial, which involves alleged bribes to assistant coaches at top men’s basketball programs, would not only exonerate Dawkins but would also show how college basketball business is really done.
“We’re going to pull back the covers,” he said, adding, “This could transform college basketball and put the players in a situation moving forward so they and their labor are treated fairly.”
Haney pledged to put coaches on the stand — “as many as I can get into the courtroom.”
Robert S. Khuzami, the acting U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York in this case, said in a statement, “The sentences imposed today only begin to reflect the magnitude of the harm these defendants caused through a scheme that not only defrauded multiple public universities but upended the lives of young student-athletes and corrupted a game cherished by so many.”
Tuesday’s sentencing hearing in a packed courtroom on a high floor of the federal district building in downtown Manhattan saw all three defendants as well as their lawyers address the court and plead for leniency. They requested no jail time at all. While most of these statements referred to the defendants’ personal characters, some of the attorneys also pointed to the unusual nature of the case, which depended on a theory in which the universities were victimized by the defendants’ attempts to secure them top talent (albeit while putting them at risk of N.C.A.A. penalties).
“If he thought that anyone would conceive what he did here as a crime, he would never have done it,” Code’s lawyer, Mark Moore, said of his client.
Comparing the situation in the case to a legal principle called the “doctrine of unclean hands,” Moore suggested that widespread illicit activity in college recruiting called into question who was truly responsible for the harm his client had purportedly caused.
“Adidas has financial contracts with Louisville through which Louisville profited,” Moore said.
“You have not seen Louisville or any of these schools look to get out of their contracts with Adidas” since the scandal broke in 2017, he added.
Moore noted that although it was not admitted into the record before the jury, Kaplan seemed to recall an earlier scandal at Louisville in which a basketball staffer paid strippers and prostitutes to entertain recruits and players in on-campus housing.
Indeed, Kaplan himself appeared to raise so-called Strippergate, which resulted in N.C.A.A. penalties, during the prosecutor Edward B. Diskant’s statement to the court, in which Diskant insisted that the universities were the victims.
Kaplan said that the defendants had committed “a serious crime,” one whose purportedly common nature was not by itself exonerating: “The ‘everybody’s doing it’ argument, in short, is not a Get Out of Jail Free card,” he said.
But the judge also recognized that the alleged behavior of university employees like assistant coaches and, perhaps, the interests of the universities themselves complicated the theory of the case — on which a jury convicted — that the universities were victims.
Referring to Brian “Tugs” Bowen Jr., a prospect whose father testified that he had indirectly taken from Adidas in exchange for Bowen’s commitment to Louisville, Kaplan said, “To me, probably the worst, the most seriously injured victim of the Louisville scheme was Tug Bowen.” (Bowen was declared ineligible and is now playing professionally in Australia.)
On wiretaps, defendants made oblique references to their activity being typical of high-profile men’s college basketball. They also suggested that at least one of Adidas’s rivals were involved in similar schemes, though there have been no further charges.
Last year Yahoo Sports revealed documents that purported to show the families of several former stars who went on to play for many of the top college basketball programs were on the payroll of Dawkins, the aspiring agent.
The second case, scheduled to be tried next month, initially featured as defendants three former assistant coaches at major programs along with Dawkins and a money manager. The money manager, Munish Sood, reached a deal with prosecutors before the last trial and served as their witness. The three former assistants all pleaded guilty in January, after the guilty verdict in the first case.
A third case, whose trial is scheduled for later thus year, features the former Auburn assistant Chuck Person, who has been charged with bribery.
