WASHINGTON — Zion Williamson, Duke’s dominant freshman, finally looked lost.
There was less than a second left on the game clock, and Williamson’s top-seeded Blue Devils held a 75-73 lead over fourth-seeded Virginia Tech in a round-of-16 showdown in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.
Virginia Tech point guard Justin Robinson prepared to inbound the ball from the baseline, and his teammate Ahmed Hill sprinted from the paint toward the corner before curling back to the rim. Guarding Hill, Williamson took one step too far, trailing the Hokie as Robinson led Hill to the rim with a lob pass.
“I’m not going to even lie to you, when he caught it, I said, ‘Oh, we’re about to go to overtime,’” Williamson said. “I don’t know what happened. It just kind of went our way.”
The ball did not go in. Duke won.
When asked how his team usually defends that play, Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said, “Better.”
It was the second consecutive Duke game of the tournament that ended with the Blue Devils as victors and their opponents lamenting a missed last-second shot that allowed the No. 1-ranked team in the country to close out a precarious win.
Five days after surviving Central Florida’s tip-in attempt to advance to the round of 16, the Blue Devils again staved off defeat at the buzzer. And the tournament held onto a top seed just hours after another — the Blue Devils’ archrival, North Carolina — had been upset by Auburn.
“That’s a great win for us,” Krzyzewski said soon after Saturday arrived and the 75-73 score went into the books. “We had to play outstanding basketball in order to win.”
Duke can expect to be tested again on Sunday, when it faces second-seeded Michigan State for a berth in the Final Four. Krzyzewski acknowledged that his team has displayed a knack for the narrow escape this March.
“The game is a great game, and it has amazing endings,” he said.
Williamson (23 points, six rebounds, three blocks) established himself early as Duke played without one of its usual starters, the freshman Cam Reddish, who was a last-minute scratch because of a knee injury.
At the start, Williamson powered his way to a layup. Next, he put back a teammate’s errant jump shot for a two-handed dunk. Finally, he stepped back to drain a 3-pointer.
It was Williamson in full, but there was another level to be reached.
He got there midway through the second half, when he finished an alley oop on a pass from point guard Tre Jones (22 points, eight assists, zero turnovers) to give the Blue Devils, who struggled to gain separation from the hard-charging Hokies, a 58-52 lead.
“That’s a momentum play for us,” Jones said.
All of Williamson’s weaponry was needed. The Hokies came out hot. In the first half, they made seven shots from beyond the 3-point arc. Hill (15 points, six rebounds) provided energy, finishing an alley oop on one possession and flexing his right biceps after knocking down a 3-pointer from the right corner on another.
Duke had faced Virginia Tech short-handed last month. That time Williamson was on the bench, as he missed five games because of a mild knee sprain. Virginia Tech won that matchup, 78-72.
There were moments Friday night when it looked as if Duke would not be able to take revenge. Frustrated by Virginia Tech’s aggressive approach early on, Duke guard RJ Barrett, another freshman star, immediately attacked the rim after halftime for a layup. A few possessions later, he absorbed a blow from a Virginia Tech defender, made the shot, and converted the free throw as well.
Aware that he could get to the rim any time he wanted, Barrett continued to attack, scoring 15 points in the second half. For the game, he had 18 points and 11 assists.
“We somehow find a way to keep winning at the end,” Barrett said.
Krzyzewski considered how his three freshman starters complemented one another, even on a night when Williamson lost track of his man with the game on the line.
“I’m a lucky guy,” the coach said, “lucky guy.”
In the earlier East Region semifinal, Cassius Winston played every second of the Spartans’ victory against third-seeded Louisiana State until Friday’s game was well in hand with a minute left. And Michigan State seemed to need of his effort.
Winston, a junior point guard who was the Big Ten player of the year and the outstanding player of the conference tournament, which Michigan State won, marshaled the offense and guarded the Tigers’ floor general, Tremont Waters, on defense. He finished with 17 points, taking 16 shots, including three of Michigan State’s 13 3-pointers, and added 8 assists.
Without him, it might have been close. L.S.U.’s size and physicality seemed to overwhelm Michigan State at times. But ultimately, the Spartans defeated the Tigers, 80-63, to advance to the regional finals for the ninth time in Coach Tom Izzo’s 24 seasons.
“He’s my Tom Brady, in a way,” Izzo said of Winston. “Change running backs and receivers, and he just keeps winning.”
Michigan State (31-6) became the second Big Ten team in the round of eight, joining Purdue.
The Spartans came out on a tear. With his team ahead by 2-0, Winston dished to the freshman Aaron Henry and lifted up the last three fingers on his hand as Henry drained the 3-pointer. Henry finished with 20 points and eight rebounds.
On the next possession, it was Winston’s turn to make one from deep. L.S.U. called timeout after Michigan State raced to a 8-0 lead. In the first half, Michigan State went 7 for 17 from beyond the arc. For the game, the Spartans were 13 of 32, a 40.6 percent success rate.
“First half I thought we were unbelievable on the boards, and that was the difference in the game,” Izzo said. His team won the rebound battle, 21-10, in the first half, and 41-34 over all.
But L.S.U. (28-7), appearing in its first regional semifinal since 2006, roared back, putting up an 8-0 run of their own to begin the second half, fueled by the sophomore guard Waters, who led all players with 23 points.
“We knew they were going to make multiple runs, just like we did,” said Winston, adding, “We just did our best to keep our composure.”
Throughout the game, L.S.U. played admirable defense against one of the most efficient offenses, as the Spartans often had to force flailing attempts at the basket as the shot clock ticked.
But it was not enough. The Tigers were 15-0 this season when holding their opponent to fewer than 70 points. In the other games, including this one, they went 13-7.
Any life L.S.U. might have had left was squeezed out with a little more than 10 minutes left and the Tigers trailing by 12. Skylar Mays of L.S.U. got on a fast break and took the ball in, but Nick Ward, a junior forward who missed several games this season with a hairline fracture in his left hand, used his right to block Mays’s attempted dunk.
The block turned into a Michigan State fast break that culminated in Gabe Brown’s fourth 3-pointer of the game.
Ward later left the game when he went down, seeming to grab his left wrist, after getting an offensive rebound and being fouled hard by Naz Reid. In a rare lapse, Winston missed both free throws after the flagrant-1 foul on Reid.
L.S.U. trailed by as few as 9 points with three minutes to go, but the Spartans were able to trade baskets from there. With barely 90 seconds left, the Michigan State senior Matt McQuaid took the ball to the rim and made a layup while being fouled. He converted the 3-point play.
It was the last of many 3-point plays for the Spartan, most of them of the one-shot variety. Michigan State knows that making 4 in 10 shots from deep can cover up a lot of imperfections.
