DeMarcus Cousins is scheduled to make his long-anticipated debut with the Golden State Warriors during the team’s Los Angeles road trip later this month, according to two people with knowledge of the team’s plans.
The Warriors will play the Clippers on Jan. 18 and the Lakers on Jan. 21, with Cousins expected to make his return from a torn Achilles’ tendon he sustained in January 2018 in one of those two games, according to the people, who were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.
After Golden State’s 122-95 rout of the Knicks on Tuesday night, Warriors Coach Steve Kerr would not make any promises but acknowledged that activating Cousins for either Jan. 18 or Jan. 21 is “definitely the range.”
“It’s not as simple as, ‘That’s the game’ — it’s somewhere in that neighborhood,” Kerr said. “Now that we are getting closer, like I told you guys yesterday, he’s made some big strides the last week or two, conditioning-wise.”
Cousins was in the midst of his best professional season with the New Orleans Pelicans last Jan. 26, when he tore his left Achilles late in a victory over the Houston Rockets.
The injury cost Cousins his first career trip to the playoffs after six and a half fruitless seasons with the Sacramento Kings and also led to him signing a one-year, $5.3 million contract with the Warriors in July. The All-Star center found his options limited in free agency amid concerns about how he would recover from such a severe setback.
The Warriors have been eager to see Cousins on the floor to finally address what has been one of the league’s most frequently asked questions since they signed him: How will Cousins find a niche in Golden State’s offense alongside four fellow All-Stars in Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green?
“He’s a great basketball player in terms of just feel and things like that,” Curry told reporters Tuesday night. “There’s going to be some fun moments out there.
“I think with the collective IQ we have in our locker room and just understanding the unselfishness around what we do that we’ll be able to figure it out hopefully quickly. But it’s going to be an adjustment for sure.”
Despite a well-chronicled lack of size on its roster, Golden State has been cautious in bringing Cousins back from what has historically been one of the most unforgiving injuries for basketball players. The Warriors have never had the luxury of fielding an offensive-minded center during their run of three championships over the past four years, but the position has been even more problematic this season after the third-year big man Damian Jones, having been moved into an expanded role, suffered a season-ending shoulder injury. Jordan Bell, meanwhile, has struggled to establish a spot in Kerr’s rotation.
“It’s exciting,” Thompson said of Cousins’s coming debut. “I know our fan base is excited, the N.B.A. is excited. I can’t wait to integrate him into our team. He adds a whole new dimension, especially on the block. He’s such a handful down there and with his ability to playmake.”
When Cousins does finally make it onto the court, Golden State will become the first team since the Boston Celtics in 1975-76 to be able to put five All-Stars from the previous season on the court. The Celtics did it that season with a lineup of Jo Jo White, Charlie Scott, Dave Cowens, Paul Silas and John Havlicek.
