Virginia is back as a No. 1 seed, and its tournament experience can only get better than last year’s, when the Cavaliers became the first No. 1 men’s seed to lose to a No. 16. But the selection committee did not do Virginia any favors: A date with fourth-seeded Kansas State (25-8) could await in the regionals, and No. 2-seeded Tennessee (29-5) is dangerous and experienced, a team no one wants to play. How tough is the South? Wisconsin, always a tough out in March, is the No. 5 seed; Villanova, the Big East champion and winner of two of the past three national championships, is the sixth seed. The good news for Virginia? It can shut down almost anyone. The Cavaliers have the country’s stingiest defense, allowing 55.1 points a game.
1. Virginia (29-3) vs. 16. Gardner-Webb (23-11)
8. Mississippi (20-12) vs. 9. Oklahoma (19-13)
5. Wisconsin (23-10) vs. 12. Oregon (23-12)
4. Kansas State (25-8) vs. 13. U.C. Irvine (30-5)
3. Purdue (23-9) vs. 14. Old Dominion (26-8)
6. Villanova (25-9) vs. 11. St. Mary’s (22-11)
7. Cincinnati (28-6) vs. 10. Iowa (22-11)
2. Tennessee (29-5) vs. 15. Colgate (24-10)
Let’s be clear: You could have taken Virginia’s three best players away from it before last year’s opening-round game versus the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, and the Cavaliers, the top overall seed, still would have probably been favored over the 16th-seeded Retrievers.
But it is nonetheless worth pointing out that Virginia’s historic loss to U.M.B.C. did, in fact, occur without the A.C.C.’s sixth man of the year, De’Andre Hunter, a redshirt freshman, who reliably offered 20 minutes, 10 points and floor-stretching offense off the bench.
And so it further would do well to recall that this year, in his second college season, Hunter has blossomed into a stalwart who starts every game and averages 15.1 points, 5 rebounds and 2.1 assists. He is decidedly healthy as Virginia turns its attention to this year’s No. 16 matchup, the Gardner-Webb Runnin’ Bulldogs.
”It sucked last year,” Hunter said Friday night shortly after Virginia was defeated by Florida State in the A.C.C. tournament semifinals. “But it’ll be different this year.”
He seemed to become more and more O.K. with the still-simmering Seminoles loss as he spoke.
“I’ll definitely be able to play,” he added. “Looking forward to it now.”
What Hunter, who went to high school in Philadelphia and chose Virginia over Maryland and Villanova, offers is size at his position. He is a nominal point guard listed at 6 foot 7 and 225 pounds.
Virginia Coach Tony Bennett took care last year not to make excuses for his team’s historic defeat. But in the course of discussing that squad — and accepting a national coach of the year award — he did note what Hunter had added, and what his subtraction subtracted.
“We were pretty good this year in playing against smaller teams,” Bennett said. “I think that’s always been a little bit of a Kryptonite of ours, but this year I think we addressed that and we took a step in the right direction. I think with De’Andre Hunter, we had that flexibility. When he wasn’t available for the N.C.A.A. tournament, we were not as effective.”
That inoculation to big teams could prove relevant in the coming weeks. In the regional semifinals, the Cavaliers could well face fourth-seeded Kansas State, whose coach, Bruce Weber, is a defensive mastermind, or fifth-seeded Wisconsin, which has size all around. In fact, per KenPom.com, those teams have the fourth- and third-best defenses in all of college basketball.
On the other hand, with Hunter, Virginia is the fifth-rated defense, and No. 2 in offense. Which means the Cavaliers should match up well — assuming they make it past Gardner-Webb, of course. MARC TRACY
Oregon probably kept a deserving team out by knocking off Washington by 20 points to win the Pacific-12 tournament. Mired at the bottom of the league standings earlier this year, Oregon enters the tournament on an eight-game winning streak. “In my 39 years in coaching, I’ve never seen a team grow up that much that fast,” Ducks Coach Dana Altman said. ANDREW DAS
Old Dominion’s B.J. Stith, the Conference USA player of the year, started his career at Virginia, where his father, Bryant, is the Cavaliers’ career scoring leader. He stayed only one year before transferring to Old Dominion, where Bryant Stith has been an assistant since 2013. ANDREW DAS
