BUIES CREEK, N.C. — With three seconds left in the first half last Wednesday night, Campbell point guard Chris Clemons was fouled on a layup. He banged the floor in frustration as the ball rimmed out, then rose and hit both free throws. Someone in the sparsely populated stands yelled, “Congratulations, Chris!” Given the size of the crowd, it’s almost certain Clemons heard him.
The second free throw was Clemons’s 22nd point of the night, and the 2,952nd of his four-season career at Campbell, a private university about an hour’s drive south of Raleigh, N.C., his hometown. It also meant Clemons, a senior, had entered the top 10 of the men’s Division I college basketball career scoring list, passing the former Kansas star Danny Manning. By the end of the game, when Clemons had finished off a season-high 48-point effort, he had passed Oscar Robertson, too.
“It’s kind of a gift and a curse that you’re not really able to enjoy the moment — or that I chose not to, rather,” Clemons said. “I do understand the significance of the events.”
History is being made in college basketball this season, but not all of it is being made for teams that are likely bound for the Final Four or by players who are projected to be selected early in the next N.B.A. draft.
With 3,006 career points at Campbell, Clemons is two behind Hersey Hawkins, the former Bradley player, for eighth all time, heading into Thursday’s game with High Point. At South Dakota State, another senior, Mike Daum, is poised to break into the top 10 by season’s end; with 2,943 points, he could pass Manning in the Jackrabbits’ game on Thursday against Fort Wayne.
It is an unignorable fact that most of the players still ahead of Clemons and Daum on the career scoring list are not household names, either. After Hawkins, for instance, Clemons could pass Keydren Clark, who played for St. Peter’s, in Jersey City; Harry Kelly of Texas Southern, in Houston; and perhaps even Alphonso Ford of Mississippi Valley State, who holds fourth place with 3,165 points. (First place, by a country mile, with 3,667 points, is the Louisiana State legend Pete Maravich, even though he played only three seasons.)
“I recognize that a lot of people on that list, who scored a lot of points in college, didn’t go on to have successful N.B.A. careers,” said Hawkins, who did have a successful N.B.A. career and now works for the Portland Trail Blazers.
Freeman Williams — who is second, and the scorer of 3,249 points for Portland State — acknowledged that his college years had been his glory days. “I got most of my attention as a basketball player back then,” he said.
Clemons and Daum fit in the same category. Daum is a two-time (and probable three-time) Summit League player of the year. Clemons is leading all Division I players in scoring this season, averaging nearly 30 points a game. Although both are likely to get opportunities to shine during the N.B.A.’s summer league or on its development league rosters, said Fran Fraschilla, the former coach and ESPN draft analyst, the 6-foot 9-inch Daum is at best a late-second-round draft pick. Clemons, who is listed at 5-9, is unlikely to be drafted at all.
The relative anonymity of college basketball’s leading career scorers appears to be a feature, not a bug. If you are scoring so many points for so much time, you most likely are not doing so at college basketball’s heights.
“If Mike Daum or Chris Clemons had gone to play in the Big Ten or the A.C.C.,” Fraschilla said last week, referring to the Atlantic Coast Conference, “they wouldn’t be on the verge of scoring 3,000 points.”
He added, “As good players as they are, they would be on teams with other really talented players, as opposed to going to a school like S.D.S.U. or Campbell, where virtually from Day 1 their talent was such that they were the dominant player not only on their team but in their league.”
And had they dominated as they have in a bigger league, they probably wouldn’t be seniors; the best college basketball players are around for only one or two seasons.
“Let’s not kid ourselves,” said Lionel Simmons, who is third with 3,217 career points for La Salle. “Some of these players, if they didn’t come out early, they could have scored 3,000.”
But even when top talents played for three or four college seasons, they did so for top teams whose other talented players lowered the individual demands on them. Superlative college players like U.C.L.A.’s Lew Alcindor (who later changed his name to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) and Georgetown’s Patrick Ewing had the kinds of supporting casts that come with championship teams.
The most prominent name in the top 20, after Robertson, is Larry Bird, who played most of his college career at Indiana State, a team that he led to the Final Four, but one that needed him to average 30 points a game. But a place on the list can still be a point of pride years later.
Hawkins acknowledged that he kept tabs on developments in the career scoring top 10. In 2014, a Blazers scout was at the Creighton game in which Doug McDermott, now of the Indiana Pacers, passed Hawkins. “He was texting me, ‘Six points away,’ ‘Two points away,’” Hawkins said. “He thought it was funny. I was sitting at dinner getting texted every three minutes.”
Last week, Clemons deflected postgame questions about passing Manning and Robertson, saying he was focused on this season, in which the Fighting Camels (15-11) are third in the Big South. Asked whether he had kept the game ball, he laughed; of course he had not.
“After it’s all said and done, I’ll definitely go back and look, reminisce on the years I’ve had here, kind of be amazed at myself, know what I was able to accomplish,” Clemons said.
Like Clemons, Daum emphasized in a telephone interview that he has been putting his team first. Still, he said, he could not help noticing recently when he passed Bird, as well as Duke’s J. J. Redick and North Carolina’s Tyler Hansbrough, two stars from the last decade whom Daum had grown up watching.
“I feel like I’m going to look back on it” — his eventual scoring total — “maybe when I’m older, and be like, ‘See how cool it was to be in that position,’” Daum said.
“For me personally,” he added, “it’s just getting ready for the next thing.”
