The Knicks shook the N.B.A. on Thursday by abruptly cutting ties with Kristaps Porzingis, sending the player long billed as their 7-foot 3-inch savior to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade that could make New York a major player in free agency this July.
The deal, which was first disclosed by The New York Times, came one week before the N.B.A.’s trading deadline and changes the course of the Knicks’ franchise. Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke have all been shipped to Dallas in exchange for the promising guard Dennis Smith Jr., who was a first-round draft pick in 2017, two future first-round picks and the expiring contracts of the veterans DeAndre Jordan and Wesley Matthews.
Porzingis, who was increasingly unhappy about the Knicks’ constant losing and is scheduled to become a restricted free agent July 1, asked to be traded on Thursday, according to both a team statement and subsequent comments that Knicks President Steve Mills and General Manager Scott Perry made on a conference call Thursday evening.
But the Knicks and the Mavericks were already far along in trade talks before Porzingis lodged that request, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.
“As is standard for this time of year, we were exploring various options on potential trades,” Perry said in a statement. “Considering the uncertainty regarding Kristaps’s free-agent status and his request today to be traded, we made a trade that we are confident improves the franchise.”
On the conference call, Mills described Porzingis as a player “that no longer wanted to be part of our group.”
In a farewell Twitter post Thursday night, Porzingis said: “New York will always have a special place in my heart. Grateful for everybody who made this journey so special for my family and I.”
Dallas’s willingness to acquire the contracts of Hardaway and Lee in order to land Porzingis clinched the deal and will position the Knicks to create nearly $75 million in salary-cap space this summer — enough to offer maximum contracts to two of the top players expected to be free agents. Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Boston’s Kyrie Irving are frequently mentioned as Knicks targets.
Porzingis established himself as an All-Star last season but tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in a game early last February. He has not played since and never regained his trust in the organization, which has been waning since the final days of Phil Jackson’s ill-fated tenure as team president and could not be repaired by Mills, Perry and David Fizdale, who is in his first season as the Knicks’ coach.
Even though Porzingis has been sidelined for nearly a year, Dallas was sufficiently motivated to surrender prized assets such as Smith and the two first-round picks (likely to be conveyed in 2021 and 2023) to get the deal done.
The Mavericks now hope to win over Porzingis, 23, keep him in Dallas and make him the team’s co-star alongside the 6-7 Luka Doncic, who is only 19 but has already emerged as a standout in his first season in the N.B.A. In Dallas’s dream scenario, Porzingis, who is from Latvia, and Doncic, who is from Slovenia, will form a partnership reminiscent of the retired Steve Nash and Dirk Nowitzki, who, at 40 and in his 21st season with the Mavericks, may be playing his final N.B.A. campaign.
“We obviously think Porzingis is a great young talent, similar in many ways to Dirk,” Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle told 103.3 FM radio in Dallas before his team played Thursday night in Detroit. “This is kind of a Dirk-and-Nash type of situation, only these guys are taller.”
For the Knicks, being able to shed the contracts of both Hardaway and Lee had become a priority before next week’s trade deadline, as  The Times reported last week. So they jumped at the opportunity to do the deal with Dallas rather than spend the next week seeing what other teams might offer for Porzingis.
The Knicks have been regarded in league circles for some time as the foremost threat to sign Durant away from the Warriors in July. The deal with Dallas means they will have the financial wherewithal to do so — and likewise to pursue Irving.
The Knicks, with a league-worst record of 10-40, are also on course to have a 14 percent chance at securing the top pick in the June draft, which would enable them to select Zion Williamson, the highly coveted Duke forward.
Smith was the No. 9 overall pick in the 2017 draft, passed over by the Knicks and Jackson, who drafted a different backcourt player: Frank Ntilikina of France. Dallas has been trying to trade Smith for weeks, having quickly concluded that the ball-dominant guard, despite his robust athleticism, is not an ideal fit with Doncic.
In a timely sales job to his new employers, Smith posted a career-high 15 assists, along with 13 points and 10 rebounds, in the Mavericks’ 114-90 victory over the Knicks on Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden.
Jordan and Matthews are on expiring contracts that the Knicks can try to trade before next Thursday’s 3 p.m. deadline. It is widely expected that both players will seek contract buyouts from the Knicks if they are not traded again before the deadline so they can seek roster spots with playoff-bound teams for the remainder of the season. Yet it should be noted that Jordan is one of Durant’s closest friends, which might factor into where he wants to be in the months ahead.
Porzingis, whose selection at No. 4 over all by the Knicks in the 2015 draft was initially panned by critics, made steady progress in his first two and a half seasons and was averaging 22.7 points, 6.6 rebounds and 2.4 blocks per game at the time of his injury. Perhaps as impressively, when healthy, Porzingis consistently gave the impression that he had the fortitude to thrive in the intense, media-driven atmosphere that surrounds the Knicks in New York.
There will now be immense pressure on the Knicks to land players at the Durant/Irving level to justify the trade — assuming Porzingis recovers fully from his A.C.L. tear. Kemba Walker, the Charlotte Hornets’ All-Star guard, is another free agent known to interest the Knicks.
No matter what happens in the free-agent market this summer, Dallas has furnished the Knicks with two attractive draft assets. The Mavericks surrendered their first available first-round pick (2021 at the earliest) that has no protections and a pick protected only through the first 10 choices (as early as the 2023 draft). Dallas was not permitted to trade its top pick in the draft this June because it already traded that selection to Atlanta in the deal last June to acquire the draft rights to Doncic. Regardless, the Knicks are already looking ahead.
“We’re extremely confident in the direction that we’re headed,” Perry said.
