The West stands out largely for one reason: Gonzaga is the only No. 1 seed that does not come from the A.C.C. The Bulldogs’ high-powered offense may have to pass some interesting tests if Gonzaga is to return to the Final Four for the second time in three seasons: Syracuse’s idiosyncratic matchup zone in the second round; Florida State’s imposing frontcourt; and No. 3 Texas Tech or second-seeded Michigan, which are the top-rated teams in the country in defensive efficiency. If there is something comforting for the Bulldogs, it’s that their journey to the Final Four will start where it did two years ago: Salt Lake City.
1. Gonzaga (30-3) vs. 16. F. Dickinson/Prairie View A&M
8. Syracuse (20-13) vs. 9. Baylor (19-13)
5. Marquette (24-9) vs. 12. Murray State (27-4)
4. Florida State (27-7) vs. 13. Vermont (27-6)
3. Texas Tech (26-6) vs. 14. Northern Kentucky (26-8)
6. Buffalo (31-3) vs. 11. Arizona State/St. John’s
7. Nevada (29-4) vs. 10. Florida (19-15)
2. Michigan (28-6) vs. 15. Montana (26-8)
James Kane was working as an assistant at Murray State in July 2016 when he turned up at a tournament in Spartanburg, S.C. Hungry, he headed to the concession stand.
While he waited for his food, Kane heard some balls bouncing in a nearby auxiliary gym. Taking a peek, he was immediately drawn to a young prospect who was playing a game of 3-on-3. Kane asked around, learned that the young man’s name was Ja Morant and soon began talking with Morant’s father, Tee. Tee Morant told Kane that his son would be playing a full 5-on-5 game the next day for an A.A.U. squad called Team South Carolina.
Intrigued, Kane called Murray State’s coach, Matt McMahon, who was in Georgia on his own recruiting trip, and told him he wanted to stay another day to see to Morant compete against another player Murray State was recruiting. When Morant scored 29 points in that game, Kane placed another call to McMahon.
He told him to drop whatever he was doing and come to South Carolina.
“This kid’s going to be a pro,” Kane, now an assistant at Iowa State, told McMahon. “His name is Ja Morant. You need to come up here.”
McMahon hopped in his car. The next day, he offered the 6-foot-3 Morant a scholarship on the spot.
“He offered Ja in the parking lot after seeing him play,” Tee Morant said in a telephone interview.
In an era of scouting combines and recruiting newsletters and YouTube clips, when it is almost impossible for an elite recruit to escape the eyes of recruiting analysts, top college coaches and even curious fans, the story of how Ja Murray ended up at Murray State might be the story of the season.
A guard who combines stunning scoring ability with tremendous court vision, Murray is averaging 24.6 points, 10.0 assists and 5.5 rebounds for a Racers team that won the Ohio Valley Conference tournament. He went for 36 points, 7 rebounds and 3 assists in a 77-65 win over Belmont in the tournament final on March 9.
“It’s crazy because there are times when you are sure he’s not seeing you, but you know in the back of your head that he does and it’s coming, so be ready,” Murray State forward Darnell Cowart said of Morant’s passes. “He’s the best player that I’ve ever played with.”
This will be Morant’s second straight N.C.A.A. tournament appearance, but the first in which he is a household name. Once overlooked — he was an A.A.U. teammate of Zion Williamson’s as a high school sophomore — Murray is now a projected top-three pick in the N.B.A. draft. More than 100 scouts have made the journey to Murray, Ky., to see him play; even more have watched him on the road.
Tee Morant said he had not been too impressed by the N.B.A. interest in his son until the Lakers president Magic Johnson walked into the arena for the Friday of the O.V.C. tournament.
“I was like, wow,” he said.
It was not the first time someone had said that around Ja Morant this year. ADAM ZAGORIA
Nevada was kicking itself on its way out of the tournament last March, when it blew an early 12-point lead and lost to Loyola-Chicago in the round of 16. This season, the Wolf Pack, who were ranked as high as No. 6, shared the Mountain West title with Utah State and were knocked out of the conference tournament in the semifinals. With a starting lineup featuring five fifth-year seniors, including the brothers Caleb and Cody Martin, they may be tired of unhappy endings. BILLY WITZ
Sixth-seeded Buffalo has a chance to further assert its dominance over the state of Arizona. The Bulls routed fourth-seeded Arizona last season in the first round and now may have a chance to play Arizona State — if the Sun Devils can get past St. John’s in an opening game. BILLY WITZ
