(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. House Democrats are demanding more information about White House security clearance practices after revelations that the president personally intervened on behalf of his son-in-law.
The move follows a report from The Times that President Trump ordered that Jared Kushner, above, be granted a top-secret clearance. Representative Elijah Cummings, the chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, accused the White House of stonewalling his requests for information and suggested that he might issue a subpoena if need be.
In a sign that House Democrats would seek to further elevate the issue, Representative Adam Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said his panel would work with Mr. Cummings’s.
_____
2. Today in 2020 news:
Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington and a former member of Congress, announced he was running for president on Friday, pictured above. He led his state during a powerful economic expansion, and he has promised to make climate change the nation’s No. 1 priority.
Another contender, Senator Bernie Sanders, is already experiencing internal strife on his campaign team. His advisers are pushing him to talk about himself, hoping it will set him apart from the crowded field.
Meanwhile, President Trump is experiencing his own political turbulence as Michael Cohen’s testimony has some critics saying it could create an opening for other Republicans to enter the race.
_____
3. Snow is expected to fall on a 2,000-mile path from California to Maine this weekend. Welcome to March.
The National Weather Service has issued winter storm watches or warnings for cities including St. Louis, Kansas City, Wichita, Kan., Denver, Cheyenne, Wyo., and South Lake Tahoe, Calif.
Our Climate Desk wrote about the weather wars — between climate advocates and deniers — that ensue every time we get a weather pattern of this magnitude. Weather is an easy thing for people to bond over, but it’s also a framing device that can be abused.
And from Anchorage, we wrote about how dogs are experiencing climate change as sled dog races are canceled. Above, snow was brought in to accommodate a 2015 race in Anchorage.
_____
4. American negotiators and Taliban officials are getting closer to an agreement to end the nearly 18-year war in Afghanistan.
The parties are preparing to resume talks for a peace deal following a two-day break from negotiations in Doha, Qatar, in which small working meetings tackled core issues like the withdrawal of American troops and prohibiting international terror groups from using Afghan soil.
But complications remain, including the continued violence: Even as negotiators sounded hopeful in Doha, Taliban suicide bombers attacked a government military base in Helmand Province, pictured above in 2017. At least 23 members of the Afghan security forces were killed and 16 wounded during the early-morning attack.
Separately, we also look at West Africa, where American commandos and other troops are leaving even as terrorist attacks intensify and spread across the continent.
_____
5. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada is facing harsh criticism after his former justice minister testified about a scandal that may imperil his re-election.
The minister, Jody Wilson-Raybould, above, said Mr. Trudeau pushed for her to cut a deal with SNC-Lavalin, a construction and engineering conglomerate she was investigating, and avoid a criminal trial.
He admitted to speaking with her about the deal, but denied her assertion that these conversations were improper “political interference” delivered with “veiled threats.”
SNC-Lavalin has been charged with paying millions of dollars in bribes to Libyan officials while the country was controlled by the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
_____
6. Pakistan freed an Indian fighter pilot who had been shot down by Pakistani forces and then beaten by a mob, capping a humiliating episode for India and a surreal week for him. Above, celebrations ensued in Ahmedabad, India.
It was a sign that tensions were easing after a weeklong escalation of hostilities between the two countries that set South Asia on edge.
But in the decades-old conflict between India and Pakistan, one place almost always suffers: Kashmir, the beautiful but cursed Himalayan valley that both nations claim. Our reporters visited the Line of Control, the disputed border at the heart of the conflict.
“Our lives depend on the mood of the soldiers,” one man said. “We will always live in fear.”
_____
7. What will the future of HBO look like?
It’s a question buzzing around media circles and Hollywood one day after Richard Plepler, the network’s gregarious chief executive and one of the most influential executives in entertainment, announced his departure.
His decision came eight months after AT&T acquired Time Warner, the network’s corporate home, in an $85.4 billion deal. According to people familiar with the decision, Mr. Plepler felt he was losing the independence he needed for HBO to thrive.
During Mr. Plepler’s tenure, HBO helped to create what is often called TV’s second golden age. Here are some of the network’s hits under his tenure.
_____
8. “Lukamania is real. We’re living it every day.”
That was a Dallas Maverick, commenting on his teammate Luka Doncic, above, a Slovenian rookie who is drawing LeBron James comparisons and is driving much of his team’s decision-making. He turns 20 on Friday.
As for Mr. James and the Los Angeles Lakers, our basketball columnist writes that “they are not a great basketball team.” The question is whether they are merely mediocre, with a chance of still making the playoffs, or not very good at all.
_____
9. Michael Jackson once cast a spell on audiences. “Leaving Neverland,” a new documentary, may break it.
The four-hour HBO movie, which premieres Sunday night, focuses on two men who accuse the star of sexually abusing them for years, from boyhood into adolescence. Our critic wrestles with their stories, and his own fandom. Above, Mr. Jackson with James Safechuck, one of his accusers, in 1988.
“‘Leaving Neverland’ is long but delicately, patiently done — and so quiet; you can practically hear yourself listening,” he writes. “It’s not a feat of investigative journalism so much as an act of bearing witness.”
_____
10. Finally, do vermin make good pets?
A group known as “verminfluencers” think so. Owners of raccoons, skunks, prairie dogs and opossums are racking up millions of views on YouTube, amassing Instagram followings in the thousands or millions, designing and selling their own swag, like Starfish, above. We talked to some of the humans behind the movement.
“We can all relate to an animal who’s just focused on eating and rummaging through trash,” one fan said. “We’re no longer liking the fluffy animals. We want the weirdos. We want the jaded ones. We want the ones who were kicked out of society.”
Have a sweet weekend.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
