(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning,
We start with the aftermath of last week’s mosque attacks in New Zealand, deadly flooding in the Midwest, and the field for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry today into what her government could have known about the gunman before the terrorist attacks at two mosques in Christchurch last week that left at least 50 people dead. She also said that her cabinet had agreed “in principle” to an overhaul of New Zealand’s gun laws.
The suspect in the attack, a 28-year-old Australian, obtained a basic firearms license in November 2017 and bought four weapons online. We compared rules for gun purchases in 16 countries.
Closer look: Interviews with survivors, and videos of the attack and its aftermath, suggest that a bystander and police preparedness may have helped limit the toll.
How to help: Here’s our guide to groups offering aid to the victims.
The Daily: In today’s episode, a Times technology columnist discusses how the attack was, in some ways, made by and for the internet.
A review of the data and voice recorders recovered from the jetliner that went down in Ethiopia found similarities between that crash and one involving the same Boeing model in Indonesia last year, Ethiopia’s Transport Ministry said Sunday.
The disclosure came on the same day as memorial services in Addis Ababa. Many families don’t expect to ever recover remains because the 157 victims died in a fiery explosion.
Related: When the 737 Max was introduced, Boeing and regulators agreed that pilots who had flown an earlier model didn’t need additional simulator training. After two deadly crashes in five months, that decision is now a focus of the investigation.
William Singer, who worked in the college counseling business for the better part of three decades, built a national brand appealing to parents’ worries about their children’s prospects.
Federal prosecutors say he was the mastermind behind an elaborate effort to pay off coaches and test monitors, fake exam scores, and fabricate student biographies — all to help wealthy parents cheat their children’s way into desirable colleges. Our reporters looked into Mr. Singer’s background.
Another angle: For students who have followed the rules of the college admissions process, now is the nerve-racking time of year when they wait to hear whether they’ve been accepted. “It’s a very long journey and now I’m just waiting for that moment,” one said.
Notable: The scandal, in which 33 parents have been charged so far, demonstrates what our reporters call “snowplow parents,” who clear away any obstacle to their children’s success.
Many of the candidates running for president favor legalizing the drug, a view that has become a pillar of progressive politics. People of color are imprisoned at disproportionate rates for drug offenses, and legalization has become a test of candidates’ commitment to equal treatment in criminal justice and to fighting economic inequality.
Yesterday: Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York officially entered the Democratic race.
Go deeper: Democrats have won the presidency with nominees under 52. But age may be relative in 2020, with many younger voters preferring Bernie Sanders, 77.
Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a journalist and a farmer in Iowa argue that Democrats need to know how to speak to voters in rural America if they hope to succeed.
Saudi Arabia has a history of going after dissidents and other Saudi citizens abroad, but the crackdown has increased sharply since Prince Mohammed bin Salman was elevated to crown prince in 2017.
The prince authorized a clandestine campaign that included the surveillance, kidnapping, detention and torture of Saudi citizens, according to American officials who have read classified reports about the efforts. The campaign included the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, pictured on the posters above during a memorial last year.
Attack in the Netherlands: A gunman killed at least three people and injured five on a tram in the Dutch city of Utrecht. A suspect was in custody.
Dispute over Huawei: A U.S. push to prevent the use of the Chinese company’s equipment in next-generation wireless networks has faltered. Some allies have rejected the American argument that Huawei and other Chinese companies pose a security threat.
Midwest flooding: At least two people have died after record-high river levels across the region, particularly in Iowa and Nebraska.
Deadly cyclone in Africa: The death toll has risen to at least 150, and hundreds more were missing, after a huge storm struck Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
Arrest in mob killing: The arrest of a 24-year-old man has led the authorities to suspect that the shooting of the reputed leader of the Gambino crime family had more to do with a personal dispute than Mafia ties.
Fox News suspension: The network removed Jeanine Pirro’s program from its prime-time slot on Saturday after the host questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s patriotism. President Trump urged Fox to bring her back.
Snapshot: Millions of orange butterflies like the one above, called painted ladies, are migrating across Southern California this month. Substantial rainfall in the deserts near the border with Mexico, where the insects lay their eggs, has caused the unusually large swarms, scientists say.
N.C.A.A. basketball: Duke, Gonzaga, North Carolina and Virginia secured the top seeds in the men’s tournament, the first round of which begins Thursday. Here’s a printable bracket. The field for the women’s tournament is to be announced tonight.
What we’re reading: Jennifer Jett, an editor in Hong Kong, recommends this essay in Quartz. Jenny Anderson, a former New York Times reporter, writes about how her brother’s death spurred her to focus on building real-life connections and community as “an insurance policy against life’s cruelty.”
Cook: “Slow-roasted” citrus salmon takes about 30 minutes, and it’s nearly impossible to overcook. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Watch: The trailer for “Avengers: Endgame” may look familiar: It uses footage from previous Marvel films going all the way back to “Iron Man.”
Go: “Skinnamarink,” a new play from the troupe known as Little Lord, explores schooling and humiliation. We made it a Critic’s Pick.
Listen: Maren Morris’s new album, “Girl,” builds on the success of her 2018 hit “The Middle.”
Smarter Living: Flying with an unhappy toddler is no fun for anyone. Our Crowdwise columnist, David Pogue, collected readers’ suggestions for simple distractions: pipe cleaners to bend around fingers or through Cheerios; Post-it notes to draw on, and entertaining adhesives, like painter’s tape, Band-Aids or stickers.
The next column will focus on advice, both that worked and that didn’t. Share your stories of wisdom at crowdwise@nytimes.com.
NASA is planning the first all-female spacewalk this month.
The first spacewalk was on this day, in 1965, by the cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. It was a major Soviet advance in the space race.
The plans had been kept secret, so Soviet broadcasts of the event caught most of the world by surprise, including Lieutenant Colonel Leonov’s family. “What is he doing?” his 4-year-old daughter cried. “Please tell Daddy to get back inside.”
After he retired, Mr. Leonov revealed how many times the mission had neared disaster. In the 2004 book “Two Sides of the Moon,” he detailed how high pressure in his spacesuit had nearly prevented him from re-entering the capsule.
Then a systems failure forced the two-man crew to manually guide re-entry. They landed in Siberia, without communications, and endured days of frigid temperatures, with one pistol to ward off wolves.
After they were found, the pair skied miles to a rescue helicopter.
The most-emailed article by Times readers over the weekend was an Op-Ed about Tanitoluwa Adewumi, an 8-year old refugee from Nigeria who has just won a New York State chess championship. He lives with his family in a shelter in New York City.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.
P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the mosque attacks in New Zealand.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Bird that’s a harbinger of spring (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • T: The New York Times Style Magazine and The New York Times Magazine were recognized with National Magazine Awards, or “Ellies,” from the American Society of Magazine Editors last week.
