Jazmine Barnes, a 7-year-old girl whose fatal shooting has shaken the Houston area, was remembered at her funeral on Tuesday as a child who cared for those around her and who dreamed of one day being a teacher.
A second grader at a Houston-area school, Jazmine was in the car with her mother and three sisters on an early morning coffee run on Dec. 30, when a car pulled up beside them and someone opened fire. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head, and she died at the scene, according to the police.
“Jazmine is an innocent child,” Mayor Sylvester Turner of Houston said, speaking to mourners at the Community of Faith Church in Houston. “She was blameless.”
“Because of her life I just want to believe that all of us will be better,” he said, “that all of us will work harder, that all of us will strive to make this world a safer place for our children.”
The young black girl’s killing prompted fears of a hate crime after the family and authorities described the gunman as a gaunt white man in his 30s or 40s. That narrative was upended on Sunday when the police charged a 20-year-old African-American man named Eric Black Jr., who the authorities say admitted to taking part in the shooting, with capital murder. Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County, Tex., said that it was most likely a case of “mistaken identity,” and that Jazmine’s family’s car might not have been the intended target.
Shortly after the funeral ended on Tuesday, the sheriff’s office announced that a second man, Larry D. Woodruffe, had been charged with capital murder in Jazmine’s death.
[Read more here about how trauma can affect witnesses’ memories.]
Jazmine’s father, Chris Cevilla, said at the funeral that his daughter was a positive force who improved the lives of those around her. She lay in a white coffin that said “Princess Jazmine.”
“God blessed me and my family with an angel,” Mr. Cevilla said. “Words can’t even express the pain that I feel.”
The ceremony included little discussion of the shooting itself, focusing instead on memorializing Jazmine and grieving with her family. But Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat whose district includes part of Houston, gestured to the criminal proceedings taking place.
“Let those who perpetrated this heinous death know that the community believes in justice,” she said.
The case quickly drew national attention. DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver for the Houston Texans, pledged to donate his paycheck from a playoff game, amounting to about $29,000, to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral. The basketball star Shaquille O’Neal also promised to help the family pay for the funeral, according to CNN.
On Saturday, nearly 1,000 people attended a rally not far from the site of the shooting to celebrate Jazmine’s life and call on the police to find the gunman. Hours later, the first criminal charges were filed.
“We mourn not only the life that was, but also the life that may have been,” Sheriff Gonzalez said at the funeral. “This is our chance to make our community safer for all children.”
