Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
I always have a mental red circle around the date that tens of thousands of eighth-grade students in New York City find out if they got into one of the city’s most selective high schools.
For most people, March is synonymous with college basketball brackets or the end of winter. For me, after five years covering the New York City public school system, America’s largest, first for Politico and now for The Times, March means one thing: specialized high school admissions results.
A seat at one of the eight specialized high schools, and especially Stuyvesant High School, is seen as an educational golden ticket in a city where many public schools are underperforming. Students gain entry by acing a high-stakes exam, and some children spend years preparing. Though these schools have been made famous by their excellent academics and tendency to produce successful alumni, they have recently become known for their lack of black and Hispanic students.
Last year, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a plan that would eliminate the entrance exam and replace it with a system that gives spots to top performers from every middle school. Mr. de Blasio, whose own son attended a specialized school, has said the statistics were unacceptable and needed to change.
[Eliza Shapiro answered reader questions about black admission at Stuyvesant.]
That proposal has quickly snowballed into one of the biggest fights in New York City politics — alumni groups and Asian-American families have said the plan could undermine the schools’ famed academics and discriminate against the mostly low-income Asian students who now make up most of the schools’ population.
That’s why I knew that this year’s results would hold more weight than they had for a long time. We would find out how many black and Hispanic students got into the schools at the same moment that a debate about the future of the entrance exam was roiling New York. But I knew the numbers would also accelerate a debate that was much bigger than a few elite public schools: How can cities help solve the intractable, centuries-old problem of education inequality?
I found out last week that Monday would be the day we would hear about specialized school admissions, and I’d heard that the numbers of black and Hispanic students were low.
But when my editor, Dodai Stewart, and I saw the final tally around noon on Monday, our jaws dropped: only seven black students were accepted into Stuyvesant, out of 895 total offers. The city’s education department sends out a spreadsheet listing how many students of each race applied to the schools, and how many were accepted. It’s a simple set of data to crunch, but each statistic was important. I knew all the reporters at other news outlets also had this at the same time I did, and we were all racing against the clock.
As we scrolled through the spreadsheet, we saw that Stuyvesant was not an outlier: The other top specialized schools had even lower numbers of black and Hispanic students than in previous years. These were the grimmest statistics about black and Hispanic enrollment in the schools that I’d ever seen.
It felt like a watershed moment, one that would force people to pay attention to what has mostly been a local issue. We scrambled to get the article posted online at 4:30 p.m., the moment the data was released to the public. Within a few minutes of publication, we knew this was going to be an article that would resonate with readers.
By the next day, the article was one of the most popular on the Times website and had nearly 1,500 comments. I was simultaneously struck by how outraged many of our readers were about the numbers — and how unlikely it was that the exam would be scrapped.
I thought about if my article would be different next year on admissions day. Would I spend another March afternoon writing about dwindling numbers of black and Hispanic students in specialized schools? Or, for the first time in years, would the article be different?
Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.
