Some of the world’s top biathletes descended this weekend on Utah for the first time in 17 years. The return for a World Cup event comes as Salt Lake City promotes its bid to host the 2030 Olympics.
For Armin Auchentaller, the Italian national who began overseeing the United States women’s team last spring, the needs are more immediate. Biathlon, which combines Nordic skiing and target shooting, is the only Winter Olympic sport in which Team USA has never won a medal.
Auchentaller’s job is to change that. In a recent phone interview from Utah, where the team was preparing for competitions at Soldier Hollow, Auchentaller cited his experience coaching the Swiss biathlon team, which, like the United States, is not considered at the pinnacle of the sport. He said it had helped him understand how to take a team from nowhere to a place where where landing on an Olympic podium is possible, as the Swiss did in 2014.
Here are edited excerpts from the interview with Auchentaller.

You want to put an American on an Olympic podium. Were you an Olympian?
I was good skier and good biathlete, but not good enough. But I was coaching with Switzerland from 2014 to 2018, and we had good results. I built up the team there, because there wasn’t really much of a women’s team when I arrived. But by the end, we were able to get some results in the top 10.

What is the most important factor in creating a successful team here?
It’s not the successful sport here that it is in the European countries. We have just a few athletes, but those athletes we have, they are so committed and they have great personalities. The important thing is to work with them and get them better every single day.

Did the top biathletes here grow up with the sport?
Many of them were college cross-country skiers, and after they received their degree, they switched. So it’s very challenging to learn to shoot, to learn the game — what they can do, what they cannot do during a competition.

You could train me forever, and I would never be able to dunk a basketball or hit a 90-mile-per-hour fastball. Can you teach someone to be a great shot?
Everybody should have a little bit of talent to start. But it’s important to remember some of the great champions were not great shooters when they were young. I am convinced I can teach you shooting.

What is the hardest thing about shooting?
The most tricky thing is not technical, it’s the mental part, the emotional part, especially when it comes down to hit the last chart [target]. Even the best biathletes, they have the technical qualities and skills, but the last shot is the hardest.

What Americans have the best chance to get to a podium?
Sean Doherty on the men’s side. For the women, it’s Susan Dunklee and Clare Egan.

What is the key to their progress?
The main thing is try to be as consistent as possible. If you have too many ups and downs, the chances may be not as high, but if you are consistent, at some point you will get there. Remember, in our sport, you can be in the lead, and if you miss on the last chart, instead of being on the podium, you can be 30th.

Do U.S. biathletes have enough support?
We need even more private sponsors for the athletes to be able to pay their flights and other costs. The U.S.O.C. is our biggest sponsor, and we do have two or three minor sponsors, but we need the big ones especially to be able to develop the young athletes.

Guns are very controversial in the United States, but they are popular with a large segment of the population. Is that an advantage?
I definitely see it as an advantage. In the U.S., it can seem like everyone has a gun. We should use this, the popularity of these sport guns.

How is the fan support in the United States?
I wish it would it would be more popular in the U.S. If people get to know this sport, I know it will be very popular.
