Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.
In his first new episode of “The Late Show” since Robert Mueller delivered his report to Attorney General Robert Barr, Stephen Colbert did his best to balance frustration with humility.
“Fair is fair,” he said. “Barr says Mueller says there was no collusion between Trump and Russia, so we have to cross collusion off the list of reasons Trump is unfit to be president.”
Then Colbert got literal. “Fellas, bring out the board,” he cried, and out came a whiteboard filled with a list of controversial things Trump has said or done.
Reading through items like “put kids in cages,” “gave security clearance to his son-in-law,” “repeatedly humped flag” and “all that birther stuff,” Colbert eventually found his way to “colluded with Russia,” and erased it. A list with dozens of other items remained.
Then he flipped the board over, revealing another list on the opposite side. “I really want to be fair to him. I should also cross off ‘Mueller’ from the list of Trump investigations,” Colbert said, now revealing a list of the 17 legal investigations into Trump by New York’s attorney general, various House committees and other government bodies.
Colbert erased the Mueller investigation from this list. “Sir, it’s gone,” he announced to Trump. “That must be 1/17th of a weight off your shoulders.”
The report, which has not been released but was summarized in a four-page document by the attorney general, found no evidence that President Trump colluded directly with Russia during the presidential campaign. But on the question of whether Trump obstructed justice, Mueller came to no conclusion, stating, “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.”
Trump seemed not to have read the second part of that sentence. Speaking to reporters on Sunday about the report, he declared: “It was a complete and total exoneration.” Colbert couldn’t countenance that.
“Trump does not understand the simplest of concepts! ‘You know, I just tried some I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter. It’s total and complete butter. I tell ya, I can’t believe how much it is butter!’” — STEPHEN COLBERT
On “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” a running gag came to a head on Monday with Kimmel showing a video of Washington State’s attorney general and the dean of Gonzaga University’s law school pledging that Gonzaga is, indeed, a real school.
All last week, as March Madness got underway, Jimmy Kimmel kept insisting — in what felt increasingly like a parody of fringe-radio conspiracy theorists — that he thinks Gonzaga is a fake university made up to win basketball tournaments.
Kimmel refused to back down on Monday, even with the video from the dean, and a little later on, he cut to a conversation with another supposed member of Gonzaga’s administration: Chancellor Gonzo Aga (played by Fred Willard). This time, the administrator admitted he was making it all up.
As the set fell down around him, he admitted that he was actually broadcasting from the basement of a Fuddrucker’s.
“Deep down, didn’t we know Trump probably didn’t collude with Russia because he could never pull that off? And even if he did collude, it probably would have been by accident. Putin wanted him in there and did what he had to do. Basically, Trump got in the White House the same way Lori Loughlin got her kid into USC.” — JIMMY KIMMEL
“It really is astonishing: The day after Trump skates on collusion, Michael Avenatti is arrested. I mean, all they have to do now is replace the bald eagle with a fried chicken and this’ll be the best week of the president’s life.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, referring to Avenatti’s arrest on extortion charges
“Wow, wow. He sent out a tweet and then 14 minutes later, they arrested him. It sounds like everyone’s fantasy of what should have happened to Donald Trump. It’s also an odd reminder to turn off your location whenever you tweet.” — TREVOR NOAH, describing Avenatti’s arrest
Jimmy Fallon taped the entirety of his show on a cellphone, and it allowed him to travel throughout New York City. One stop he made was in the middle of the Brooklyn Bridge, where he sang a bit of doo-wop with members of the Roots.
Noah on the Mueller report’s findings: “A lot of us were expecting something different. It’s a little bit like coming down the stairs on Christmas morning — you were hoping for a brand-new BMX but instead you find Santa’s dead body.”
Conan O’Brien will cross enemy lines again to visit Stephen Colbert on “The Late Show” on Tuesday for the second time in two months.
One of this year’s most haunting vocal performances isn’t by a singer. It’s by Lupita Nyong’o in “Us.”
Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:
The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now
The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century
The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now
