The Los Angeles Lakers lost their season to injuries and general ineptitude weeks ago, and all that remains for them now are a handful of games and a playoff-free finish. It turns out there is still plenty of room for minor calamities along the way, which they proved at Madison Square Garden on Sunday afternoon.
In a sleepy matinee devoid of long-term consequences, the Lakers’ 124-123 loss to the Knicks was, in some ways, a symbol for all that has gone wrong for them — and for LeBron James in particular. Absent a bunch of injured players, the Lakers crumbled against the worst team in the league, and James, for all his ability, was more problem than solution.
After hogging the ball for his team’s final four possessions, James had a leaning runner — one that could have put his team ahead — blocked by the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja in the waning seconds. For the Knicks, who have been bound for the N.B.A. draft lottery since training camp, it was a rare chance to celebrate. For the Lakers, who had seemingly hit rock bottom when they lost to the Phoenix Suns two weeks ago, it was another opportunity to rev up the backhoe and dig a little deeper.
“We got real stagnant,” said Lakers forward Kyle Kuzma, who was reduced to a spectator on the court late in the game as James tried to win it by himself.
James’s appearances at the Garden are usually big deals. He likes the lights, the stage, the grandeur, the history. But the postbrunch atmosphere for Sunday’s game had all the buzz of a linoleum convention, an indictment of two lousy teams playing for nothing — and an indication, perhaps, that James has lost some of his luster this season.
He had his moments — a dunk here, a no-look pass there — that had the crowd roaring with appreciation. James finished with 33 points, 8 assists and 6 rebounds, which is a fairly ordinary game for him — even now, at age 34, chest-deep in his 16th season.
But he has set an impossible standard for himself, and his late-game struggles against the Knicks were emblematic of a season gone awry. He faded badly in the fourth quarter, shooting 4 of 15 from the field as Hezonja did what he could to make James’s afternoon as difficult as possible. James missed his final four field-goal attempts.
“Anytime he was with the ball, I was trying to get him tired,” Hezonja said.
It is hardly the worst strategy to have James dominate the ball in pressure situations and let him do what he wants. How many times has he come through?
“Like, thousands,” Hezonja said.
But this season has been a sad anomaly for James, who missed a large chunk of time with a groin injury and then did little to resuscitate things once he returned.
In a few weeks, James’s streak of 13 straight playoff appearances and eight straight trips to the N.B.A. finals will come to an end. No one expected him to haul the Lakers (31-39) to the mountaintop — the roster was poorly constructed from the start — but the level of dysfunction has been fairly shocking. James is already banking on the off-season.
“There’s a lot of great free agents this summer,” James said. “Not going to name any names, because every time I say something, or our organization says something about a specific person, we get in trouble. But we have an opportunity to get better.”
For now, though, James is taking some hits to his reputation. There was the Anthony Davis saga, which seemed to erode whatever fragile chemistry the team had left. There was James’s subsequent pledge to “activate” himself into playoff mode, which merely resulted in more losses. And there was Sunday, when James tried to win the game by himself and came up empty.
Even Walt Frazier, the Hall of Fame guard who is an analyst for MSG Network, criticized James during Sunday’s broadcast for sitting apart from his teammates, at the end of the bench, during an early timeout. “When you’re the face of the N.B.A., you should be more a part of the team,” Frazier said.
To be fair, James was not in the game at the time, and he always sits at the end of the bench. But the optics were poor, and James has not been an exemplar of team-building this season. It has been easy to find faults. And sure enough, late in the fourth quarter, he appeared to show, once again, how little he trusts his teammates.
“We got the ball in our best player’s hands and we tried to make him make the right decisions,” Kuzma said. “We just try and live with it.”
The Knicks, who closed the game on a 13-1 run, have won 14 games this season. Two of those wins have come against the Lakers. James was asked if that bothered him.
“It bothers me that we didn’t close the game out,” James said. “And being the competitor that I am, it bothers me that I didn’t make enough plays down the stretch. It bothers me that I didn’t even get a shot up at the hoop. Of course that stuff bothers me.
“But what’s the difference between their record and our record? Two teams out of the postseason. So there’s no difference.”
No difference between two bad teams, except that James plays for one of them. And that is the biggest surprise of all.
