Madison Pineda left her Texas home when she was 16 and came to New York to dance, living in Upper West Side housing provided by the Joffrey Ballet School.
“I was in a dinky little square studio that had a bathroom, a kitchenette and one window that faced another window,” she said.
She lived in the building for two years, with a 10 p.m. curfew until she turned 18. In the fall of 2017, Ms. Pineda, who goes by Maddie, started at the Juilliard School, at Lincoln Center. Freshmen are required to live in the school’s dorm, “which was a bummer because I had been living in an apartment for two years,” she said. “Everyone else in my class was coming straight from high school. I felt like an old aunt.”
Ms. Pineda shared a suite for seven, with a beautiful view over the Hudson River, and got along especially well with her bunkmate, Kaylin Maggard. In the interest of fairness, they swapped bunks midyear. “The person on the top bunk couldn’t sit up because they would hit the ceiling,” Ms. Maggard said.
The two friends endured the usual trappings of dorm living: little closet space, crowded laundry facilities and a required meal plan. A communal kitchen was available, but Ms. Pineda missed having counter space of her own for cutting and chopping. “I’m a cook at heart,” she said.
For their sophomore year, the roommates, both now 19, were ready to trade the dorm for an apartment. And they were in a better position to do that than many of their schoolmates who wanted to move off campus but didn’t have a built-in roommate.
Ms. Pineda, whose family has lived in Minnesota, California, Texas, Missouri and Ohio, availed herself of the moving expertise of her father, Bob Pineda. He set up appointments and monitored the action.
“I wanted to understand the whole process of getting an apartment in New York,” Mr. Pineda said. “It’s very involved. It’s not as easy as getting a place anywhere else.”
He found a handful of options, knowing it was likely the friends would need to split a one-bedroom. They were aiming for something with a good kitchen, convenient laundry and a well-equipped gym. Their price range was $3,500 to $4,500; anything less for a home within walking distance of Juilliard seemed unrealistic.
The first place, at 180 Riverside Boulevard, was in the former rail-yard neighborhood sometimes called Riverside South. Ms. Pineda liked the river views and calm sidewalks, traffic noise from the highway notwithstanding.
One-bedrooms there were in the $3,000s and $4,000s, and only one was available. It had a rectangular bedroom, but the rest of the apartment was an unusual “not-square, not-even-triangle shape,” Ms. Pineda said. It seemed impossible to make it workable for two.
A sunny corner unit in a condominium building on West 47th Street, west of 10th Avenue, was farther from school but had great appeal. It had two large bedrooms, two bathrooms and four closets — and it came fully furnished. The rent was $4,475 a month.
But the owner wanted to sell the unit, meaning the roommates would need to let prospective buyers in for viewings. And if the apartment sold, they would have to vacate. They appreciated the agent’s honesty in explaining the limitations, and knew that they couldn’t risk a month-to-month lease, with the possibility of being booted out. (The apartment is currently for sale for $1.075 million, with monthly charges of around $1,700.)
Finally, they came to the Max, on West 57th Street near 11th Avenue, a 15-minute walk from the school. When Ms. Pineda visited, “I was in awe,” she said. “I had never seen a New York apartment like this in my dreams, ever. There is that huge lobby, and it was just so welcoming. I was, like, ‘This cannot be an apartment building. This is a palace.’”
She returned with her roommate. “They showed us the amenities first, so by the time they get to the apartment, you don’t even care what it looks like because the amenities were so great,” said Ms. Maggard, who grew up in Missouri.
The 44-story building, which has more than 1,000 units, promised not only a rooftop deck and a gym, but a yoga/dance studio where they could rehearse. “In New York, you don’t always get all these outside areas unless you go to a public park,” Ms. Pineda said. She envisioned “all those times we could have our friends over and do more than sit in a small circle and chat.”
When she brought her parents, who were in town for a dance performance, “they were also wowed,” she said. They had figured the girls would end up in a place that was “older, smaller and nothing like this,” Mr. Pineda said.
The apartment had big windows facing north, a surprisingly large bathroom and a kitchen peninsula with plenty of counter space. And it was easy enough to divide the living room to create a makeshift second bedroom.
The duo arrived late in the summer, with a rent in the low $4,000s and their parents on the lease. The amenity fee was waived.
The enormous basement laundry room is near the gym, so they can wash clothes while working out. “There are so many machines,” Ms. Maggard said. “I’ve never seen them even halfway full.”
They have had friends over to eat brunch on the rooftop and shoot hoops on the basketball court, an especially popular spot.
In the winter, they brave the wind whipping from the Hudson as they walk to school. “It is not the best scenic route,” Ms. Pineda said. “But we dancers love walking because we love to find any way to work out and warm up.”
Email: thehunt@nytimes.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
