March 5, 6, 8 and 9; ticketmaster.com.
The Farewell Yellow Brick Road tour, billed as Sir Elton John’s last, has already included four shows at Madison Square Garden. But with more than 100 performances still to come in his long goodbye, slated to conclude in London in December 2020, four hardly seems sufficient — especially given that the legendary singer-songwriter had held the record for the most shows at the storied venue, until he was bested by his frequent co-headliner Billy Joel.
So John will perform twice more at the Garden (March 5 and 6), bringing his career total to a round 70 concerts. A pair of shows at the Barclays Center (March 8 and 9) follow. After that, his last scheduled appearance in New York will be at Long Island’s Nassau Coliseum in November. Fans can expect hours of many of John’s most beloved hits and the priceless feeling of seeing something that might never happen again. NATALIE WEINER
March 8.
Back in September, in an episode of Dax Shepard’s podcast, “Armchair Expert,” Ethan Hawke threw a little love Vincent D’Onofrio’s way. “I’ve pretty much cobbled together my own education,” Hawke said. “But the person who reached inside me and spoke to me about acting in a way that made sense was Vincent.”
D’Onofrio — who most recently appeared with Hawke in “The Magnificent Seven” (2016) — returned the favor by casting his friend as Sheriff Pat Garrett in his new film “The Kid.” It’s a retelling of the Billy the Kid (Dane DeHaan) saga as seen through the eyes of a teenage orphan (Jake Schur) and his sister (Leila George, D’Onofrio’s daughter) on the lam from their gunslinging uncle (Chris Pratt, another “Magnificent Seven” alum).
Also on the roster: the musician Ben Dickey, whom Hawke — having cast him as the blues singer Blaze Foley in his biopic “Blaze” — had sent to D’Onofrio for acting lessons. “The Kid” opens in select cities, including New York, Los Angeles and Atlanta, on Friday, March 8. KATHRYN SHATTUCK
Through March 23, 59e59.org.
The victims of Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme hadn’t had much time to heal when Deb Margolin wrote one of them, the Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel, into her play “Imagining Madoff.” Wiesel threatened legal action, the show’s world premiere was canceled, and Margolin refashioned her script, replacing the Wiesel character with one who merely resembles him. Quietly, in upstate New York, the show made its debut.
All of that was in 2010, the year after Madoff pleaded guilty to perpetrating a multibillion-dollar fraud. But only now is “Imagining Madoff” having its New York City premiere, staged by New Light Theater Project at 59E59 Theaters.
In previews for an opening on Wednesday, March 6, the play is a meditation on morality and evil, with just three characters: Madoff; a celebrated poet who is a Holocaust survivor; and a Madoff secretary who didn’t know, or didn’t care to find out, that her living came from stolen money. “I never asked many questions,” she says. LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES
Through Aug. 4; nyhistory.org.
It’s not every river that has an entire genre of landscape painting named after it. But then, it’s not every river that rushes from the majestic wooded valleys of the Empire State down to one of the great harbors of the New World.
With photographs, documents, and artifacts as well as an ample selection of misty Hudson River School paintings, this exhibition at the New-York Historical Society charts two centuries of exploration, exploitation, industrialism and environmentalism along the mighty Hudson River. WILL HEINRICH
March 6 and 9; 92y.org.
A dancer twists her body around a cellist as he performs one of Bach’s famous solo suites; a string quartet plays Beethoven’s monumental late music between readings of poetry. These are two upcoming scenes from the 92nd St Y’s new Inflection series, a philosophical exploration of the relationship between music and other art forms.
On Wednesday, March 6, the Upper Manhattan venue presents “Love in Fragments,” an examination of Roland Barthes’s writings that includes dancers, a sculptor, as well as the cellist Alban Gerhardt and violinist Gergana Gergova, who will perform works by Bach, Jörg Widmann and Ravel.
And on Saturday, the imaginative Brentano String Quartet presents an evening focused on the poetry of Wallace Stevens. Performances include Beethoven’s op. 132 quartet and “The Planet on the Table,” a new Stevens-inspired work by the thoughtful composer Martin Bresnick. WILLIAM ROBIN
March 6-9; newyorklivearts.org.
In the works of Molly Lieber and Eleanor Smith, there is no hierarchy between dancer and dance-maker. Collaborators and friends for over a decade, they choreograph and perform together, contributing equally to the process. Perhaps because of their commitment to the duet form, each new piece seems less like a stand-alone creation than the latest chapter in the story of their partnership.
Unfurling with a dreamy open-endedness, that story has, in recent years, dealt more directly with life events. In “Basketball” (2017), Smith spoke through clenched teeth about a memory of sexual assault, pointing to one motivation, perhaps, for such a deep exploration of intimacy and trust between friends. In “Body Comes Apart,” March 6-9, at New York Live Arts, that exploration continues, as the artists embrace the breadth of experiences a body can hold. SIOBHAN BURKE
acorn.tv.
“London Kills” is the latest thriller to grace Acorn TV’s slate, but it could just as easily be the streaming service’s overarching theme this month. Starring Hugo Speer and Sharon Small, the five-episode “London Kills,” now showing, follows rival detectives as they race through crack dens, opulent high-rises and even Parliament to solve a string of murders, while having their attention diverted by the disappearance of the lead inspector’s wife.
Then, starting Monday, March 11, Acorn will present “Manhunt,” a three-part mini-series based on a London detective’s memoir of searching for the serial killer Levi Bellfield in the early 2000s. In a rare, quietly effective dramatic role, the comedian Martin Clunes (“Doc Martin”) plays the methodical detective helming his first major murder case — and facing withering criticism from within his ranks as he dares to connect dots his colleagues would rather not. New subscribers can use the code NYTACORNTV to get their first 60 days free. KATHRYN SHATTUCK
