(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning,
We’re covering the long-awaited results of the special counsel’s investigation into Russian election interference, the end of the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate in Syria, and an abbreviated visit to Washington by Israel’s leader.
The special counsel, Robert Mueller, found no evidence that the Trump campaign conspired with Russia to influence the 2016 presidential election, according to a summary of the key findings of his nearly two-year investigation that was made public on Sunday by Attorney General William Barr.
The special counsel, Mr. Barr said, stated that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him” of illegally obstructing justice. Nevertheless, Mr. Barr and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, announced that there was insufficient evidence that President Trump had committed that crime.
Read: Here’s the four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s findings. Democrats have called for the release of the full report.
News analysis: The end of the investigation has lifted a cloud over Mr. Trump’s presidency and fortified him for the battles to come, our chief White House correspondent writes.
The Daily: On today’s episode, two of our reporters discuss the findings.
Calling the special counsel’s investigation an “illegal takedown that failed,” Mr. Trump said on Sunday: “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.”
The White House does not yet have the full report, a spokesman said, and it was not clear when, or even if, the president would get complete access.
What’s next? Federal and state prosecutors are pursuing about a dozen other investigations that grew out of Robert Mueller’s work. The end of his investigation also offers clarity to the Democrats who hope to beat Mr. Trump in next year’s election.
Perspective: In an Op-Ed, the lawyer who drafted the regulations under which Mr. Mueller was appointed says that the attorney general’s unilateral conclusion that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice makes it imperative that the public see the full report.
Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, is supporting two new measures as part of an effort to tackle anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language, an issue that has divided Democrats in the House.
The measures will be promoted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the largest pro-Israel advocacy group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.
Related: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is cutting short a visit to the U.S. after a rocket attack from Gaza injured seven people near Tel Aviv today. He said he would return to Israel after meeting with President Trump.
A century after women were first allowed to serve, they make up 8 percent of the Marines, the lowest percentage of any U.S. military branch.
An award-winning war photographer for The Times followed a handful of female recruits as they went through basic training at Parris Island, S.C.
Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a woman who spent 20 years in the Marines says that the corps still has lower expectations for female recruits.
Half of humanity lives in cities, the main generators of planet-warming gases. That means the big fixes for climate change need to come from cities, too.
Copenhagen is home to 624,000 people and aims to be carbon neutral — generating more renewable energy than the dirty energy it consumes — by 2025. The Danish city’s experience shows what’s possible, and what’s difficult.
ISIS “caliphate” crumbles: A four-year battle to free territory in Iraq and Syria ended over the weekend, as American-backed forces seized the last village held by the militants.
A fix for Boeing: Pilots have met with company executives to discuss proposed changes to the 737 Max, two of which have crashed in recent months.
Anti-Brexit march: Hundreds of thousands crowded London streets on Saturday to demand a second referendum over Britain’s departure from the European Union. Parliament has twice rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan but is set to consider it for a third time this week.
Parkland grieves again: A survivor of last year’s mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., has been found dead in an apparent suicide, the second such death in a week.
Cruise ship rescue: A Viking cruise ship that set out with more than 1,300 people limped into port in Norway on Sunday after experiencing engine trouble in rough weather. Earlier, some passengers were airlifted, one by one, from the ship’s deck.
Voting in Thailand: A pro-military party was on track today to capture an unexpectedly large number of seats in the weekend’s elections, probably allowing the army, which staged a 2014 coup, a license to continue its hold on power.
Snapshot: Above, an imam recited the adhan, or call for prayer, on Sunday at the Linwood Mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand. The mosque, one of two where 50 people were killed this month, reopened this weekend.
Apple’s next act: The tech giant is set to unveil today a news and entertainment bundle that is expected to offer access to magazines, newspapers, music and, perhaps most intriguingly, original shows and films. Netflix is one of the big players that won’t be a part of it.
N.C.A.A. basketball: It’s not a year for Cinderellas. In the men’s tournament, the round of 16 will include 14 of the top seeds, which hasn’t happened since 2009. The favorites have also dominated in the women’s tournament, the second round of which concludes today.
What we’re reading: This Gizmodo piece about an adventure on one of the motorized e-scooters in San Francisco. Mike Isaac, one of our Silicon Valley reporters, says he loves how the author, Joe Veix, describes “scooting his way out of crumbling modernity, over the Golden Gate Bridge and up through the Marin Headlands — to happiness, and the promise of a better life.”
Cook: Toss roasted broccoli with a Thai-style vinaigrette. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Watch: Jordan Peele breaks down the haunting scene in “Us” where members of a family meet their terrifying doubles.
Listen: A year ago, Blueface was a little-known Los Angeles rapper. Now he has a viral single. On Popcast, our pop music podcast, our critic Jon Caramanica leads a discussion about how it happened.
Go: Ivo van Hove’s staging of Leos Janacek’s song cycle “Diary of One Who Disappeared” has poetic, surprising images. It’s coming to the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
Smarter Living: When you’re starting your career, the best opportunities for growth aren’t always at the most influential places. But aiming to be a bigger fish in a smaller pond may not give you enough room for development. Try finding an outfit that’s on the way up, where you can accumulate skills and social capital and expand along with it.
Also, your knees are the most taxed joint of the human body. Here are some ways to keep them healthy.
Last week, Emma Fitzsimmons, a transit reporter for The Times, wrote about the strange disparity in New York’s subway lines, exploring why lettered lines — notably the F — performed particularly badly. We noticed that the subway system skips a few letters of the alphabet, and asked her to explain.
The letters missing from the current subway map either were removed over the years or never existed because officials thought they might confuse riders. An I train could have been mistaken for a 1, or an O train for zero.
There once was an H train — a shuttle line in Rockaway Park, Queens — but in 1992, it was changed to an S for shuttle.
The K once ran along the C line in Manhattan, but the letter was retired in 1988.
Once a letter disappears from the map, that doesn’t mean it’s gone forever. The W train, between Queens and Manhattan, was axed in 2010 and then reappeared in 2016 after the opening of the Second Avenue subway, which diverted the Q train to three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side.
As for the Z, transit advocates held a funeral for the line amid budget cuts in 2009, but it has survived (for now).
The Times recently asked members of Generation Z, the group that was born in the years around 2000, to describe their identity. Here’s what they had to say.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.
P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the results of the special counsel’s investigation.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Month for “Madness” (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • From 1905 to 1913, The Times’s headquarters were in a tower at 42nd Street and Broadway in Manhattan, an intersection the city named “Times Square” to lend a distinctive name to the new subway station in the building’s basement.
