A year ago, Jeromy Gaviola was struggling to find steady and meaningful work in San Francisco. Living in the working-class neighborhood of Hunters Point, he heard about a program that was training residents to build the Chase Center, the $1 billion, 18,000-seat arena in Mission Bay that will be the new home of the Golden State Warriors when it opens this fall.
Mr. Gaviola, 33, applied to the program, was accepted and completed six weeks of training in early September. He then began working at the arena and was recently installing insulation and acoustical ceiling tiles above the Warriors’ practice court.
“I’m very fortunate to have a job and be part of this,” he said. “I was doing little delivery jobs, just to get by with the bills, and was really close to being homeless.”
Mr. Gaviola’s experience mirrors that of hundreds of others nationwide as demand for construction labor outstrips supply. Eighty percent of contractors were having trouble finding skilled workers, according to a national survey released last year by the Associated General Contractors of America trade group and the software designer Autodesk.
Competition for workers over all has been heating up. December was one of the strongest months of job gains in the last decade, with employers adding 312,000 to payrolls, the Labor Department reported on Friday.
Facing a tight labor pool, developers, public officials and community organizations are using commercial projects to provide residents with careers in construction. Together, they’re making an effort to recruit men and women from impoverished neighborhoods or challenged populations, such as former prison inmates. In booming markets like San Francisco, Denver and Miami, where gentrification is squeezing affordable housing, demand for these types of programs is growing.
The training programs are also occurring in smaller markets. In Milwaukee, for example, Gorman & Company, an apartment developer, has teamed up with city, state and community agencies to give former inmates on-the-job training restoring dilapidated, tax-foreclosed homes, which are then rented to low-income earners.
“There’s a very limited number of jobs that people re-entering society can do, but they are key to our success,” said Ted Matkom, president of the Wisconsin market for Gorman. “They can earn a good wage and are motivated.”
In some cases, contractors are required to meet local hiring targets, particularly on big projects that include incentives or are providing a public benefit. Cities and community organizations are recruiting and training workers to help builders meet the thresholds.
In addition to classes, the programs typically provide tools, boots and other equipment to the candidates, and they pay for items such as apprentice application fees, child care and gas. Case managers at the organizations even make sure newly employed graduates receive wake-up calls.
The developers of Chase Center are getting a hand from San Francisco’s CityBuild Academy, a program that has trained about 1,400 workers since it was introduced in 2006. Among other services, the academy provides 18 weeks of training for apprenticeships in partnership with City College of San Francisco. JPMorgan Chase, which acquired the naming rights to the arena, has also kicked in $350,000 to fund special training courses.
To date, those programs and others have provided union apprenticeships to 81 graduates, according to representatives from CityBuild and the National Basketball Association’s Warriors. The workers can make hourly wages of $20 to $30, not including overtime, said Joshua Arce, director of work force development for San Francisco.
“These are the kind of wages you need to rent an apartment or to save over the long term to buy a home,” Mr. Arce said. “This is a way to get in front of displacement and address San Francisco’s housing affordability crisis.”
For taxpayer-funded projects, San Francisco requires that local workers perform 30 percent of overall work hours and 50 percent of apprentice hours. The rules do not apply to privately funded projects, but some developers, like those building the Chase Center, also agree to strive for those goals, Mr. Arce said.
Similarly, developers of the downtown Miami Worldcenter agreed to hire 10 percent of their skilled workers and 30 percent of their unskilled workers from Miami-Dade County, with an emphasis on recruiting from the nearby neighborhoods. That was in return for nearly $90 million in incentives to help fund the first phase of the 27-acre, $3 billion luxury residential, office, hotel, entertainment and retail project.
The new state minimum wage is $8.46 an hour, but developers agreed to pay starting hourly wages of at least $11.58 or $12.83, depending on whether health insurance is included.
“Even though employment is strong in Miami, these jobs offer a great opportunity for folks because they can move up the ladder as they meet certain criteria,” said Daniel Kodsi, a principal of Paramount Ventures, developer of the $600 million Paramount Miami Worldcenter condominium tower, which is scheduled to open this year.
In addition to spearheading job fairs and other initiatives to recruit workers, the local community redevelopment agency used a federal grant to provide training to 30 students through Miami Dade College. Henry Crespo Sr., president of the Development Firm in Miami, a diversity and inclusion hiring consultant on the project, said another training program was being planned.
“The idea is not only to steer residents toward the Worldcenter project,” Mr. Crespo said, “but to also give them the ability to find a career path through construction.”
In Denver, work is about to begin on the $765 million redevelopment of the National Western Center, home to the 113-year-old National Western Stock Show.
The project, which is being funded by a voter-approved permanent extension of a 1.75 percent tax on hotels and car rentals, will transform about 250 acres northeast of downtown into a campus for the agricultural organization and its livestock, horse and rodeo events held each January. It will also serve as a hub for education and research on food, water, livestock health, and other agricultural and environmental issues.
The redevelopment is expected to create 1,000 construction jobs, and the city is requiring contractors to recruit in nearby low-income neighborhoods and to reach out to veterans and former prison inmates, said Gretchen Hollrah, executive director of the Mayor’s Office of the National Western Center. WorkNow, an 18-month-old platform of the Center for Workforce Initiatives at the Community College of Denver, is providing hiring support and training for the project and others.
“There are many construction projects in Denver that have really intensified the need for an expanded pipeline of workers,” said Katrina Wert, director of the Center for Workforce Initiatives. “We want to reach populations that haven’t shared in the city’s recent growth and prosperity.”
In 2017, WorkNow began recruiting workers for a $1.2 billion, 10-mile overhaul of Interstate 70 in Denver. With the help of $1 million from a philanthropy tied to the Colorado oilman Sam Gary, the organization placed 56 workers into registered apprenticeships and provided 190 experienced construction workers with additional training in its first fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30.
Che Derrera found his way to WorkNow in October. He had difficulty landing work in his previous professions when he was released from prison in early 2018 after serving eight years. But Mr. Derrera, 45, is now an apprentice replacing traffic signals and setting up temporary lights at the I-70 project, and he continues to enhance his skills, including training for hazardous operations and emergencies.
“This opportunity is a steppingstone — not to erase my choices in the past, but to build from them and ensure I don’t have any setbacks,” Mr. Derrera said. “It’s a chance to earn a good income and have long-term stability.”
