Louisiana State suspended its head men’s basketball coach, Will Wade, on Friday — less than two weeks before the N.C.A.A. tournament is set to begin — after a report that Wade made damning remarks to a recruiting middleman on a phone call that was wiretapped as part of a federal corruption investigation.
Wade spoke with Christian Dawkins, who was convicted of fraud last year for his connection in a scheme to funnel money to the families of basketball recruits, in violation of N.C.A.A. rules. In the conversation, according to a report on Thursday by Yahoo Sports, Wade was heard boasting in colorful language that he had made a strong offer to one recruit but that he had not yet committed because someone else in his life was not getting “enough piece of the pie in the deal.”
A source with knowledge of the call, who declined to be identified because the trial is continuing, confirmed the report on Friday.
The No. 10 Tigers (25-5) are having their best season in decades and are considered shoo-ins for an N.C.A.A. tournament bid. They host Vanderbilt on Saturday night before next week’s Southeastern Conference tournament in Nashville.
“All of us at L.S.U. share the obligation to protect the integrity of this institution,” said the university’s president, F. King Alexander, and its athletic director, Joe Alleva, in a statement. “As such, we have suspended Head Coach Will Wade indefinitely until such time as we can ensure full compliance with the N.C.A.A., as well as institutional policies and standards.”
Alexander and Alleva pledged full cooperation with the N.C.A.A. and said an assistant coach, Tony Benford, would be interim head coach.
When confronted with the report on Thursday by a local television station, Wade declined to comment.
Dawkins was convicted of fraud after a trial last year, alongside Jim Gatto, the former director of global sports marketing for Adidas, and Merl Code Jr., who had also worked for Adidas. After a yearslong investigation involving a cooperating witness, undercover agents and wiretaps, prosecutors said the men had conspired to funnel Adidas money to the family of a top basketball player who would play for Louisville, one of the most prominent teams the apparel giant sponsors.
But prosecutors also accused Dawkins and Code of involvement in bribing assistant coaches at top programs. In a trial set to begin next month, three assistant coaches have pleaded guilty, but Dawkins and Code are also defendants and, following sentencing in the first trial on Tuesday, their lawyers pledged to fight prosecutors on the facts and summon college coaches to testify.
When the charges were first announced, in September 2017, they swiftly led to the firings of Louisville’s athletic director and Hall of Fame coach, Rick Pitino. Several assistant coaches charged also lost their jobs. Arizona Coach Sean Miller was suspended for a game after a report that he was on tape discussing with Dawkins the payment of $100,000 to a top recruit, but he and the university denied the charge and he was reinstated. Evidence at last year’s trial indicated that Miller did have phone calls with Dawkins.
“The information in recent news reports is very disturbing, if true,” the SEC commissioner, Greg Sankey, said in a statement on Friday. “Considering the existing circumstances, L.S.U. has taken appropriate action today while the investigation continues.”
