(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump will deliver a prime-time address on Tuesday night about what he called the crisis at the southern border.He also plans to travel to the border later in the week in an effort to persuade Americans of the need for a wall — the sticking point in negotiations that caused the partial government shutdown. Above, wall prototypes on the border with Tijuana.The impact of that shutdown, now in its third week, has started to ripple across the economy as thousands of Secret Service and T.S.A. agents are expected to show up to work after missing a paycheck. But the I.R.S. will still issue tax refunds, officials said._____2. At negotiations about reopening the government on Saturday, Vice President Mike Pence, above, insisted on beginning with a prayer. So Republicans asked God “to bring us together.”On Sunday, Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s staff members began with another prayer — noting that Jesus and Mary were both refugees.The two prayers underscored the stalemate lawmakers find themselves in. But some small advances were made, White House officials claimed. Republicans agreed that a concrete wall was a non-starter, and that any text of a bill would refer to steel instead.Here’s what is, and isn’t, affected by the government shutdown._____3. “I’m ready to be convinced.”That’s the mood among Iowa Democrats, who are giddy at the prospect of a packed Democratic primary field for 2020. They got their first taste with a stop from Elizabeth Warren, above, when the Massachusetts senator unofficially kicked off the race over the weekend.Meanwhile, former Vice President Joseph Biden is in the final stages of deciding whether to run for president. He’s telling allies he’d be happy to stand aside in 2020, but one Democrat told us he’d said: “I don’t see the candidate who can clearly do what has to be done to win.”_____4. The “Dry Alabama” Facebook page had a blunt message: “Alcohol is the devil’s work, and the state should ban it entirely.”The prohibitionist campaign appeared to be led by supporters of Roy Moore, the Republican Senate candidate in 2017 who lost to Democrat Doug Jones. But it was actually a stealth creation of liberals trying to defeat him.The campaign is the second so-called false flag operation by Democrats to be discovered in that race — and the latest example of how dirty tricks on social media are creeping into American politics._____5. Five hundred and eighteen inmates sleep in a space for 170, above, at Manila City jail — and gangs keep the order.Since President Rodrigo Duterte launched a violent antidrug campaign in 2016, jails in the Philippines have become increasingly packed, ranking among the most crowded in the world.And the overcrowding has gone on for so long, and the detainees outnumber the guards by so many, that a tacit agreement between officials and jailhouse gangs has become the rule.“When you are detained in Philippine jails, you are being tortured,” said one member of the government’s Commission on Human Rights._____6. The stakes were high for Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, above, when she slipped away from her family and fled to Thailand.“They will kill me because I fled and because I announced my atheism,” she said of her family in Saudi Arabia. “They wanted me to pray and to wear a veil, and I didn’t want to.”The 18-year-old has been allowed to stay in Thailand with officials from the U.N. refugee agency. Earlier, she was kept at Bangkok’s main international airport for 48 hours — and on the verge of being deported.Ms. Alqunun said she plans to continue on to Australia and request asylum there._____7. One seemed drunk, but she was cold sober. Another was a marathon runner — until the burning began. A third patient had meningitis, but there was no infection.We talked to three people enrolled in the Undiagnosed Diseases Network, a federally funded project that helps those who have exhausted all other medical options. Researchers pursue every possible clue — gleaned from genetics, imaging, biochemistry, clinical exams — to discover what is wrong.Above, Sara Mason-Silva, 44, who suffers from erythromelalgia, a rare disease in which blood vessels become blocked and inflamed.Some receive treatment options, while others receive peace of mind.“Patients find it really valuable even just to give a name to the enemy,” said a geneticist at Stanford University and co-director of the network._____8. Some vocalize, other click and whistle. Complex songs are reserved for the mighty humpback.Scientists have found that whales often string together repeated sound patterns to create complex tunes and even jingles. Some also change up their playlists. Above, a humpback whale in the waters off Sri Lanka.So why do whales sing? One hypothesis for humpbacks is that males are trying to attract females. They’ll even switch their tunes if a rival is nearby to assess his size and fitness._____9. Alabama and Clemson are undefeated. But which will win?The college football national championship is tonight at Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, Calif., and we’ll be providing live updates throughout the game. Both teams have deep benches, and depth has become the ultimate weapon separating the best from the very good, our college sports reporter writes.Check back here for updates and analysis._____10. Finally, in case you missed it, we’ve got the highlights and lowlights of the Golden Globes from our team of reporters and critics. Above, Sandra Oh, a co-host of the show and winner for best actress in a television drama.Our chief fashion critic weighs in on the night’s style. Last year, she writes, women dressed in black to honor the Times Up movement; this year, it was back to business.And our awards season columnist explains why some of the surprise wins weren’t so surprising. Will the Academy Awards follow suit? Voting opened for the Oscar nominations today.Have a starry night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.