Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.As Melania Trump already knows, just because President Trump loves you doesn’t mean he can spell your name. Hamburgers just found that out the hard way.Trump hosted the Clemson football team at the White House on Tuesday, and he welcomed the players with a overflowing order of fast food. But when he tweeted about the experience — proudly declaring that he had paid for the meal himself — Trump misspelled “hamburgers.” Badly.“Because of the Shutdown I served them massive amounts of Fast Food (I paid), over 1000 hamberders etc.,” he wrote. (The number may also be wrong: Speaking to reporters, he said that he had ordered only 300 burgers.)The president deleted the tweet soon after it was posted, but it was too late: Late-night TV had already spied its red meat.“Normally I would wonder if you didn’t know how to spell it or if you just made a typo. But this one is so bad, I think it’s both. I think you don’t know how to spell it, and then you made a typo of the wrong spelling in your head. I think you looked at that afterwards and thought, [impersonating Trump] ‘Oh man, that’s supposed to have two d’s in it! I’m so emblarassed.’” — SETH MEYERS“That’s right, in addition to ‘hamberders,’ there were ‘chorken nerglets,’ ‘fronch firs,’ ‘felayshofitch’ and of course ‘pizzazz.’” — STEPHEN COLBERTSenator Kirsten Gillibrand isn’t the first Democrat to announce she’s exploring a run for president in 2020 — but she is the first to do it on late-night TV. Gillibrand, who represents New York, broke the news in a highly anticipated appearance on “The Late Show” Tuesday night.She grabbed Stephen Colbert by the hand and told him: “I’m filing an exploratory committee for president of the United States — tonight!” Then she listed the reasons she’s running.“I’m going to fight for other people’s kids as hard as I would fight for my own — which is why I believe that health care should be a right and not a privilege,” she said. “It’s why I believe we should have better public schools for our kids, because it shouldn’t matter what block you grow up on. And I believe that anybody who wants to work hard enough should be able to get whatever job training they need to earn their way into the middle class.”Colbert reminded Gillibrand that he had run presidential campaigns (as stunts, of course) in 2008 and 2012. “I know how difficult it can be. I hope it goes better for you than it did for me,” he joked.Then Colbert offered the senator a basket full of charms and souvenirs, including a plane ticket to Michigan — a sidelong swipe at Hillary Clinton, who neglected to campaign in that state in 2016 and famously lost it to Trump.Jimmy Fallon taped Tuesday’s “Tonight Show” in Puerto Rico, and things got going with a bang. During the opening sequence, Fallon joined Lin-Manuel Miranda and the cast of “Hamilton” in the theater in San Juan where they’re currently performing the musical. Then, along with Questlove and Black Thought of the Roots, he wandered into downtown San Juan, where he met up with the singer Bad Bunny. An impromptu dance party started.Later in the show, Fallon interviewed Miranda about his decision to bring “Hamilton” to Puerto Rico, where the playwright and actor’s father is from. Miranda talked about the resonances between the subject matter in “Hamilton” and the experiences of Puerto Ricans.“There’s a song in this show called ‘Hurricane,’ and I could barely get through it last night, because it is about that,” he said. “What I remember from Hurricane Maria so vividly was the quiet — was, like, literally not being able to hear from the island in that sort of immediate aftermath. And the opening line to that song is, ‘In the eye of a hurricane, there’s quiet.’ So it sort of brought all that back.” He said he hadn’t imagined “it would resonate in this particular way.”Miranda is donating the proceeds from the performances there to the Flamboyan Foundation, which supports artists on the island.Representative Steve King — who has a long history of making racist remarks — was stripped of his committee posts this week by congressional Republican leaders after saying in an interview with The New York Times that he wasn’t sure why terms like “white supremacist” and “white nationalist” were considered offensive. He’s been derided by politicians on both sides of the aisle, and some Republicans have called for him to resign.One person who has not weighed in is Trump, who told reporters that he had not been following the story. Hearing this, Trevor Noah feigned astonishment.“You haven’t been following it? What else are you doing? [impersonating Trump] ‘I’m extremely busy, folks. You think a name like “Jeff Bozo” just comes out of nowhere, huh? Genius like that takes time!’” — TREVOR NOAH, referring to Trump’s new epithet for Jeff Bezos“In an interview with The New York Times, Steve King basically said that he doesn’t think there’s anything wrong with being a white supremacist. Now, that feels like a pretty racist thing to say — which makes it even more surprising that Trump isn’t following this. I mean, you’d think an algorithm would have recommended it by now. It’d be like, ‘If you like Charlottesville, you’ll love Steve King!’” — TREVOR NOAHAfter critiquing Trump, Noah aired a noir-style skit in which he donned a detective’s outfit and tried to sleuth out whether King is, in fact, a racist.Seth Meyers decided to examine how Trump’s policies were affecting the rural voters who helped elect him.Just how strong is Terry Crews?Lily Tomlin and Jane Fonda, whose Netflix show “Grace and Frankie” is about to embark on its fifth season, will talk to Jimmy Kimmel on Wednesday.The Motion Picture Academy threw up its hands and decided to go without a host at next month’s Oscars. But the Grammys, at least, will have a host — and it will be Alicia Keys, the singer announced on Tuesday. She’ll be the broadcast’s first female host in over a decade.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st Century