LOS ANGELES — Zlatan Ibrahimovic, after a quiet off-season with his family in Sweden, returned to training camp with the Los Angeles Galaxy this winter to find bulldozers and construction crews at work on a new plaza outside the team’s stadium.As a part of the refurbishment, the club will be unveiling a statue of David Beckham, a seminal figure in the evolution of Major League Soccer, in the plaza this weekend. Ibrahimovic, who, at 37, is nearing the age at which soccer legends are memorialized for the trophies they won and the goals they scored, said he was happy for Beckham, a former teammate of his at Paris St.-Germain and a two-time M.L.S. Cup winner with the Galaxy.Could Ibrahimovic envision the team building a statue for him someday?“We’re discussing,” he said in an interview after a recent practice. “Not one — two. One in the front, one in the back. And one in the middle of the stadium. So, three!”Ibrahimovic, the iconic striker, tends to serve up his brand of supreme confidence with a disarming smile and a subtle wink, and suddenly you feel as if you are in on the joke. Except it is not a joke. Not really. Ibrahimovic seems sincere about all the stuff he says: the boasts about his greatness; the odes to his goal-scoring prowess; the comparisons to lions and gods; the third-person soliloquies about all things Zlatan.Yet no matter how extreme or insightful or hilariously bold his claims become, his delivery — always with a wink and a smile, not to mention the résumé to back it all up — somehow helps it go down more easily.Consider his line of grooming products, which includes deodorant, liniment balm and tattoo enhancer cream. Ibrahimovic said he had personally helped develop several types of cologne — Zlatan Black Nomad, anyone? — and that he guaranteed results.“Oh, you will feel powerful, don’t worry,” he said. “They don’t need to see you. They just need to smell you.”In the same way, one gets the sense Ibrahimovic was not joking when he pledged to “break every record in M.L.S. this season” at a recent fan event. (Asked if he had any particular records in mind, he replied, “All of them.”) And he was absolutely not joking when, upon signing with the Galaxy last March, he bought a full-page advertisement in The Los Angeles Times.“Dear Los Angeles,” it read. “You’re welcome.”A few months later, when LeBron James announced that he, too, was moving to Los Angeles, to sign with the Lakers, Ibrahimovic welcomed him via his Instagram page.“Now L.A. has a God and a King,” he wrote.Ibrahimovic — who, to be clear, was the god in that situation — joined the Galaxy last year after star turns with European powerhouses like Juventus, Barcelona and Manchester United. Joining the Galaxy, he finished with 22 goals in 27 games but fell short of leading the team to the postseason, a disappointment for a player who has added to his collection of championship trophies — more than two dozen at last count, in five European leagues — nearly everywhere he has played.So Ibrahimovic has created a new challenge for himself this season: to dominate on a new continent with a surgically repaired knee and countless skeptics — real or imagined — fueling him.“The age, the knee, not like before — all this baloney,” said Ibrahimovic, who used a more colorful word than baloney. “They trigger me.”Ibrahimovic’s stateside odyssey was a long time coming. He recalled making his first trip to America in 1999, as a 17-year-old prodigy with Malmo, his hometown club in Sweden, for a summer youth tournament near Minneapolis. He visited Los Angeles about 10 years later, at the height of his powers, for a training camp with the Italian club Inter Milan. The team worked out twice a day, which left little time for sightseeing.“You see the football field, you see the hotel and you see the bus,” Ibrahimovic said. “I mean, I heard that a lot of characters live in Los Angeles, a lot of personalities — actors, singers, all of this. And I was curious: Why do people live here?”He investigated when he spent a month at the Beverly Hills Hotel with his wife and their two sons before he joined Manchester United in 2016. They enjoyed the weather and the easygoing vibe. “I think the sun brings energy, brings happiness,” Ibrahimovic said.When he sustained a serious knee injury with Manchester United the following year, he got a rare sense of his own sporting mortality — and it persisted when he faltered during his comeback.“It was not easy,” he said. “I didn’t feel comfortable. It was different.”He was also eager for a fresh start. Enter the Galaxy, who signed him a few weeks into last season for the bargain-bin price of $1.5 million. Ibrahimovic’s arrival at Los Angeles International Airport was streamed live on the internet, and Tomas Hilliard-Arce, a defender then in his rookie year with the Galaxy, said he was among the viewers.“I kind of felt like it was a big day for me for some reason,” Hilliard-Arce said, “because I got to meet a hero.”It was soon clear to his new teammates that Ibrahimovic wanted to incorporate himself into the fabric of the team, no small thing for a player of his stature. As he prepared for his first game, the inauguration of the Galaxy’s nascent cross-city rivalry with Los Angeles F.C., he made playful small talk with Emmanuel Boateng, a young midfielder.“I’m going to need you to score two goals today,” Ibrahimovic said.Ibrahimovic started the game on the bench, where he sat next to Hilliard-Arce. After the Galaxy gave up two quick goals, and then another at the start of the second half, Ibrahimovic began to mutter to himself. “I think he was mostly just psyching himself up,” Hilliard-Arce said.Ibrahimovic entered the game in the 71st minute and promptly delivered a dose of his hallmark magic: a stunning half-volley from nearly 40 yards and then a headed game-winner in stoppage time. Amid the celebrations, Ibrahimovic sought out Boateng.“I told you to score two goals,” Ibrahimovic said. “But since you couldn’t do it, I had to do it myself.”The rest of the season was less pleasant for the Galaxy — “Let’s say it went not good,” Ibrahimovic said — and the club regrouped by hiring a new coach, Guillermo Barros Schelotto, who was coming off a successful stint with Boca Juniors, the most decorated team in Argentina, and by re-signing Ibrahimovic to a one-year deal worth a league-record $7.2 million.“The club wanted to give me a 10-year deal,” Ibrahimovic said, “but I said, ‘One year at a time.’ Because I need to feel good physically, and I don’t want to put the club in a situation where they’re stuck with me and I cannot perform for them.”For all his self-assurance, though, there are jarring moments when Ibrahimovic at least seems to acknowledge the toll of age and injury.“Imagine how I was last year? And then think five years, 10 years back,” he said. “I would do the same things but repeating them 10 times more. I was a machine. You could not stop me. And this is not me trying to make myself big for you. This is who I was. I was a different animal. I’m still an animal, but I was a different animal.”Yet even at 37, Ibrahimovic has the same gravelly voice, the same marbled physique and the same sharp edge. His teammates say that he raises the intensity of everyone around him, and that every moment on the field is a competition to him. In training, he wants to win every drill so he has bragging rights in the locker room. And he does not hide his disgust when things do not go well.“What shouldn’t be lost in his big personality is that this is one of the best players to ever play the game,” Don Garber, the M.L.S. commissioner, said. “And his focus on being a consummate professional is really his biggest value.”Ibrahimovic’s transparency runs counter to the way many high-profile American athletes carry themselves. He has found that they tend to be too conscious of their image, he said — so polished, in fact, that they come off as artificial.“I’m not an act,” Ibrahimovic said. “I will do mistakes, and I will learn from mistakes, and I will do mistakes again, and I will learn. I’m not perfect. I’m just being myself.”He does not, for example, need to travel with a group of 20 advisers, he said. He does not need a stylist. He does not need to censor himself. He does not need to be anyone other than Zlatan, because usually that is more than enough.“I am the real deal,” Ibrahimovic said as readied himself for a new season. “I am coming, and I am original.”