The student commenters on our site faced another week of divisive politics, existential questions and media mania — and all with compassion, humility and a healthy dose of humor.In addition to the many comments we received on our writing prompts this week, we also noticed that some of our older prompts were lighting up. Students from Nashville, Tenn., weighed in on our 2017 Student Opinion question “Is Live-Streaming Classrooms a Good Idea?” and students from Paris responded to many of our past questions. Thank you for sharing your thoughts!We’d like to take this as an opportunity to remind everyone that all the writing prompts we’ve published since 2016 are open for comment indefinitely. And, though we don’t call out older comments in this weekly roundup, we still read everything you write!Read on to find out what teenagers had to say this week about the incident at the Lincoln Memorial, whether everyone should go to college and a fast-food feast at the White House.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted.__________Over the weekend, video footage of an encounter between a Native American man and a throng of high school boys wearing “Make America Great Again” gear outside the Lincoln Memorial in Washington went viral, inflaming outrage across the country. We invited students to watch the video, as well as additional footage, and read an article, then weigh in with their thoughts about what happened that day and why this moment struck a nerve.We were impressed with the measured and empathetic tone with which teenagers approached this question. But most of all, we were impressed by the willingness of many students to scrutinize their own beliefs and biases in their responses to the situation. Because of the sensitive and complex nature of this topic, we’ve chosen to highlight many of their excellent comments below.What happened and who’s to blame?I have seen clips of this story all over social media and the news, but no one really knows what really happened. It all started with the Hebrew Israelite’s who yelled racist comments at the Native Americans and students. They were the instigators of this whole disagreement. Nathan Phillips was the Native American man who walked in the middle of all the protesting students, only trying to separate them from the Hebrew Israelite’s. He said that he “stepped in between to pray,” but this wasn’t how everyone else saw it. Nick Sandmann was very close to him and was somewhat smirking, but he did not do anything wrong or mock him. He didn’t say a word, he just stood there. Although Phillip’s intentions were good, he could have done something else to try and calm everyone down. Walking in the middle of a bunch of shouting students wasn’t the best idea, and that is what everyone has been watching on the news and on social media.— Alex Lee, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.I think that Nick Sandmann and many of the other boys in the group are innocent. This was my view when I first heard about the incident, and after reading his statement, I am only more convinced that he did not do anything rude or offensive. In his statement, Nick said that he had no desire for tensions to escalate, and wanted to remain peaceful the entire time. I think that that is respectable, justifiable and the right thing to do. The video clearly shows him simply standing there as Phillips bangs a drum in his face, doing nothing rude. The public is being way too harsh on an innocent kid who got caught up in a conflict that he wanted nothing to do with … I admire what Nick said in his statement about how he has no hard feelings toward Phillips, and respects his rights to protest, despite the fact that he rudely banged a drum inches from Nick’s face.— Sivan Frankel, Masterman School, Philadelphia, Penn.After reading the article from the Times and watching the video showcasing the incident, I feel extremely appalled at the students’ behavior at the Lincoln Memorial. However, the new information that Mr. Phillips approached the mob of students rather than the other way around is very important and significantly changes things. If the students had approached Mr. Phillips, than it would appear as if the students had hostile intentions. But since Mr. Phillips had supposedly stepped in between the students and the Israelites to diffuse the situation, the students aren’t necessarily to blame for the confrontation with the Native Americans. This being said, I do not approve of the way the white students were acting in the presence of Mr. Phillips. Even if the white students did not cause any physical harm, it seems as if the white students were continuously mocking the Native Americans. They showed no respect for Mr. Phillips or his race. I can only hope that more awareness of unfair and rude treatment towards minority races results from this incident.— Brian E., Masterman, Philadelphia, Penn.Once I got my information on the event, I felt that the two sides, the MAGA students and the African American Israelites were at fault but mainly the MAGA students, because the conflict between the two groups became so tense that Nathan Phillips felt it upon himself to intervene to stop the two. However, when he did do this, the students took it upon themselves to disrespect him, they were seen screaming, yelling, dancing, and mocking him, when all he tried to do was diffuse the situation. I know that Nathan Phillips intervened just to resolve the conflict, but it wasn’t the best idea, considering that the two groups had very strong beliefs and weren’t going to back down.— Sarayah W, Masterman, PhiladelphiaAt first, while watching the video I saw extreme ignorance with only the actions of the high school boys. But when you continue to watch through you can hear derogatory remarks being shouted from all groups. The Israelite men shouting words of hate towards the Native American group, as well as the obvious obnoxious behavior of the students. But what really made me have this change of mind were the words being expressed from one of the Native American men. He tells some of the students to go back to Europe and that they don’t belong here. Maybe these are just words spouted in the heat of the moment, but nevertheless, they have a strong racist tone. Nathan Phillips, however, is the only person I see in the video who is actually trying to spread a peaceful message. It is evident in his peaceful nature that he is only trying to avoid further conflict and his actions are actually rooted in goodness. This is yet another video that is often taken out of context in order to push one’s own agenda. I think this video highlights a multitude of issues rather than just the conflict between Phillips and Sandmann.— Henry Wojciechowski, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.… New video emerged of a few students from that school verbally harassing a group of girls as they walked by before the incident with Native American, Nathan Phillips. Shouting things like “MAGA” at the girls. This completely disproves their innocent, we-could-never-do-anything-bad, cover. As the girl stated in a tweet, “I’m tired of reading things saying they were provoked by anyone else other than their own egos and ignorance.” I couldn’t have said it better myself. These young and impressionable boys at Covington Catholic High are being taught ways of life that should no longer be acceptable, this kind of disrespect to other cultures and even to girls is only something boys who do not know no different would do. I personally put the blame on their parents’ beliefs and where they live as well as well who represents their home state politically.— Angela Xhori, Julia R. Masterman, PhiladelphiaThe roles of race, power, privilege and politicsDespite all of the attention surrounding the teen and the Native American alike, the incident personifies the politically divisive nature of our society at this moment, and it goes to show just how easily it is to force blame upon an individual based on the way they look or even what they wear.— Conner Knight, HoustonGoing into this situation, because of my personal political and moral opinions, I immediately assumed that the white male wearing the Make America Great Again hat was in the wrong. Because I disagree with him and because of the situation of a minority vs an non-minority I already had preconceived notions about who was in the right and who was not. As I watched the video and learned more about the situation, the more confused I got. The man wearing the MAGA hat in the video was certainly not being respectful, but he didn’t seem to be doing anything inherently hateful (as I had assumed). The more information I got that was from more than one side of the story the more I began to see that I jumped to conclusions based on appearances, which is the very thing I stand against.Then a whole other layer began to unfold. Was I really defending someone who believed in something I was so vehemently against? By not disagreeing with someone who I had categorized as standing for everything I stood against, did I become them? Yet another layer to this issue was as a white person who only knew part of the situation, did I even have the right to comment? This story was represented in many different ways with so many different parts that it became hard to even know what was going on, much less form an opinion.— Eliza Nelson, HoustonIn this situation, I think that the fact those high schools were all white, Catholic and most of all wearing “Make America Great Again” gear was not very helpful too there case. Also, the fact a Native American, who make up only 1% of the country, was being attacked/antagonized. I think due to the heat of politics and people calling the president a racist also makes this story harder on the white high schoolers.— Yehuda Mahlab, Masterman — Philadelphia, Penn.I heard the teens yelling build the wall and I heard the Hebrew Israelites yelling go back to Europe, which I find ironic. While the Lincoln Memorial symbolizes equality for all, integration, and acceptance, what the two groups were basically saying was if you’re from insert place we don’t we don’t like you and don’t think you should be here.— Ami S, Masterman, PhiladelphiaThe sad thing is, the only reason people blew up and the social media blew up was because the kids were wearing MAGA gear. Make America Great Again has now gone from a promising slogan to a phrase that means white supremacy and hatred …It’s just depressing that on a holiday commemorating a peaceful rights activist, an unnecessary clash between races had to occur between peaceful protests. Also, this fruitless and hurtful confrontation took place in front of a national landmark dedicated to not just any man, but a man who fought against slavery and racial injustice and here were these representatives of different races disrespecting the legacies and work of President Lincoln and Dr. Martin Luther King Junior.— Tino K., Masterman PhiladelphiaA lesson in media literacyThis is a perfect example of why you need to understand all sides of a story before you develop your opinion on whatever the topic is and people always need to remember that news has always spread fast, but now that we have news networks and social media, gossip and rumors spread like wildfire in this dry, helpless nation.— Caroline Langenkamp, Houston, Tex.I feel like much of the national response to this situation has revolved around people “taking a side,” either targeting or attacking one of the groups … I think that this event should not be about taking a side, and instead should demonstrate the issues with the way that we respond to news. We should all take extra care to remember to separate our personal biases from our reading of news, and to read and understand all parts of a story from credible sources before forming an opinion.— Gillian, Houston, TexasI think that this incident is another example of why we should not rush to conclusions before hearing the full story. With the whole country in a political crossfire concerning the wall, it is not a surprise that many people reacted quickly and without full knowledge of what really happened. This reminds us that we should always make sure to understand the full story before rushing to conclusions and that we should always respect others no matter their race, ethnicity, age, gender, religious belief, etc.— Anya Finlay, Masterman- Philadelphia, Penn.To begin my thoughts, I would like to say that even through these articles, we do not know the full story. Everyone has given their accounts based on their perspective. The story will be different for everyone. For Philips, he was just trying to diffuse tension. For Sandmann, Philips came up to him and provoked all actions. Even my perspective will not be fully accurate because my opinions influence my thoughts, and I only have so many resources.— Katja Corbett, Texas__________In “The Misguided Priorities of Our Educational System,” Oren Cass laments that the American education system allocates too much time, money and resources for college-bound students and not enough for those who want to take a different path. In this Student Opinion question, we asked students if they agreed or if, in fact, they believed higher education should be a goal for all.Almost all of the students who responded said that the decision to attend college was a personal one, depending on one’s interests and ambitions, and that more should be done to make postsecondary options more equitable. However, many students said they planned to attend college themselves because a degree provides more opportunities.College isn’t for everyoneCollege isn’t for everyone, and I think that’s becoming more clear in society now, as more people are finding alternatives. There’s a stigma about not going to college. People assume that if you don’t go to college, you probably aren’t motivated, or don’t have goals. I think it can be the opposite, though. Some people who don’t go to college do it to fulfill their dream, something they might not be able to do in college. Others may not be able to spend the inane amount of money that higher education costs. People might also have health issues that prevent them from leaving home for long periods of time. In these cases, there should be other higher education opportunities. Some people think that the only way to become successful in life is by receiving a good education. I don’t think that’s true, though, because I know of many famous singers and actors who didn’t go to college in order to start their career. College was never a requirement, and it shouldn’t be now. Although I myself am definitely planning on going to college, that doesn’t mean that everyone should have to.— Juliet Giangregorio, Danvers, Mass.It is unjust that a student who portrays excellent academic grades receives greater possibilities and far more services than a student who is knowledgeable but, not in the skills focused on in school. The student with academic skills is praised and rewarded while, the other is looked down upon and no one bothers to see the other skills they have acquired. This is a constant struggle for people with creative minds and those who are driven by adventure. In the article, it discusses the second student with, “ though it neither targeted his interests and abilities nor prepared him for work force success.” I believe those who decide against college should not be automatically turned down by certain career paths or providing services. They have absorbed skills that haven’t been taught in school. It is incredibly wrong to turn them away.— Megan McCormack, Hoggard High School, N.C.I believe that everyone should have the option to attend college if they want to, but they should not have to. Everyone is different and has different interest which are not all met in college. Some people might love the idea of college and others want nothing to do with this. I think students in high school should take classes that prepare them for college as well as the real world. Not everyone should have to follow the same path if they have different interests. Although a higher education seems ideal, college is not the only place people can get that. People can get technical jobs and apprenticeships in order to gain work and life experience.— Declan Quinn, Danvers, Mass.Although a college education is essential for those on certain career paths, I believe a college degree would be useless to others. While some occupations like doctors, dentists, and lawyers require a college degree, many other occupations require only on the job training or a certificate from a technical (trade) school. An example of this is my friend, Seth, who decided to attend technical school to be a Welder, something that requires only two years of instruction and costs much less than a college education. Many other jobs have similar education requirements, such as Plumbers, Mechanics, or even Air-Traffic Controllers. The belief that everyone should attend college should be changed, as attending college for some individuals only points to student loan debt that can control and be a burden on their lives for many years. Instead, more money should be focused on helping these individuals as well as those attending college reach their education requirements and enter the workforce.— Jake Meaders, Bryant High School, ArkansasGoing to college opens doorsGoing straight to work after high school is fine, if you are entering a field you truly enjoy, but college gives you the ability to have options. If you double major it opens up so many more opportunities if you realize that you are not happy with where you are, which is much harder to do without a degree. I hold great respect for people who have plans after high school that don include college, but there is something to be said about the opportunities that college allows for you to have that otherwise, are near impossible to match without a degree.— Madison Kelley, Danvers, Mass.After I graduate high school, I do plan to attend college. In my opinion I think that college is a perfect transition to merge your adolescent, and adult life together. I feel that many job opportunities look for an education past high school, and even if they do not it looks better on resumes, and applications to have it. College is not only a great learning experience, but it is also where many people meet their lifelong friends, and are exposed to new things.— Lilli Peluso, MassachusettsI know that college isn’t for everyone and that’s ok but it doesn’t change the fact that by going to college, people generally tend to have more experiences and opportunities open to them. I think that everyone should be afforded the chance to get into a college and even if they don’t, there is always the option to go to a community college.— Kathleen Dawe, MassachusettsMaking postsecondary options more equitableBeing a high schooler at a public school I feel I have not been exposed enough to all the viable options out there for jobs that don’t require a college degree. I have been trained to focus on test scores and a variety of occupational surveys that will match me to a college that would be fit for me. I have not had a lot of exposure to different career options that I could pursue directly out of high school. I know of some of these jobs not involving a college degree such as a plumber, or an electrician; nevertheless, I feel there are many more opportunities out there that don’t necessarily rely on my test scores or GPA.— Gabriela Ferullo, Danvers, Mass.These days, many high school and college students don’t gain useful work experience or have the resources to get high-level internships; employers looking for relevant work experience are left with academically brilliant candidates, but they have no clue how the real world works. Students are taught from a young age that their good grades will help them get into a good college to set up for a successful career. For students who aren’t academically gifted, they are left with schools that aren’t properly funded, or they are thrust into the workforce with little pay. Our government needs to set up a new system for students who don’t want to pursue a college education, so they can gain needed jobs and internships to benefit their future without the structure of a college education.— Grace Donahue, Danvers, Mass.Should everyone go to college? In my opinion, no; if a student doesn’t want to do so, that’s their decision to make. Should every student who strongly wants to go to college, however, get the opportunity? I think the answer to that is quite clearly yes. If a student wants to learn, they deserve the opportunity to do so.— Jack Murray, Danvers, Mass.I believe that college has come to be an over-emphasized part of our lives and is not always necessary to fulfill a stable and successful lifestyle … I feel that high school is far too geared towards learning copious amounts of information that is rarely used. If it was more geared towards learning real life skills, or job related experiences, I feel that the idea of college would be more appealing and the motive to continue the interests you have developed would increase.— Jessica Mandri, Danvers__________In our most popular Picture Prompt of the week, “Fast-Food Buffet,” we asked students to respond to the image above. What was their reaction to the meal that was served at the Clemson Tigers’s college football championship celebration at the White House?Students had very strong feelings, ranging from embarrassment and disgust to approval and salivation. Here are their thoughts on the image, including whether it looks like something they would want to eat, how it’s related to the government shutdown and what it says about our country.“Embarrassing,” "disgusting,” “disgraceful”Donald Trump presenting championship college football team the Clemson Tigers with this spread of fast food is laughably embarrassing. No doubt these men have worked hard to achieve their championship, and that includes having a strict diet in order to perform to the best of their ability. When they got invited to the White House, they were probably not expecting to be fed something they can grab for $5 on any main street in America.What’s even more embarrassing is Trump boasting that he paid for the meal out of pocket, since the government had been shut down 25 days ago (the longest in history) … Though the shutdown is Trump’s own fault for refusing to negotiate, he is using this event, which should be about the successful season of the Tigers, as a weak example of the negative effects of the shutdown and easy way to blame Democrats, not himself for it. It’s embarrassing to be an American while the President prides himself on buying a disgusting amount of fast food rather than fixing the government.— Julie Kee, Danvers, Mass.I think that the spread that President Trump presented to Clemson Tigers is utterly disgraceful. Just the sight of the piles of hamburgers and french-fries on silver platters is disgusting. President Trump said that the menu was due to the government shutdown and how there was little staff left to actually make meal out of the kitchen, this is just another reason to stop the government shutdown.— Ona Stocovaz, MastermanEver since I was very young, my parents taught me that fast food is extremely unhealthy, and to this day I have never eaten McDonald’s, Wendy’s, Taco Bell, etc. Thus, this buffet absolutely disgusts me, especially considering that it was served to athletes, who need to eat healthy in order to be able to perform optimally. I find it disgusting that Trump considers this okay to serve to the team who just won the college football championships. Rather than order fast food because of the lack of money due to the shutdown, then use it as an excuse to blame the Democrats yet again, Trump should have rescheduled the dinner for a time when the government is open again, and quality food can actually be served.— Sivan Frankel, Masterman School, Philadelphia, Penn.I understand that the White House chefs cannot work because of the shutdown that Trump caused (most of the polls now show that people blame our president for the shutdown), but why squander the dignity of the White House by buying cheap food that causes heart disease? Right now, the world sees a country that sells cancerous foods to athletes, and a president with billions of dollars that can’t spend more than a couple thousand dollars on awarding national winners. Going to the White House should be a great and unique experience, and Trump just ruined it for the Clemson Tigers by serving them cheap, worse than ordinary, and unhealthy food.— Tino K., Masterman Philadelphia“Who doesn’t like a good burger?”This would be, in my opinion, an unbelievable buffet. Many people dislike our president and many others like him very much, and there is nothing wrong with either opinion. But after all, President Trump is the leader of the country, and I would love to be able to say that the President of the United States of America treated my team and I to food in the White House. With the government on shutdown it had to be more difficult to have an uncontrollable amount of food. As everyone knows Donald Trump is extremely rich and in fact has a net worth of 3.1 Billion dollars. Buying this food for all of those players was not a financial burden for him. Also I believe this act makes him the first president to provide food to a championship team paid for out of his own pocket.The thing that many people forget about college athletes is that many are still teenagers or in their early 20’s. Even though they are portrayed as these big celebrities, they are just kids playing a game they love. Coaches take their teams to get ice cream after wins all the time in youth sports, and these athletes are still kids. The Clemson team was actually asked what they would want and they all agreed on fast food, because who doesn’t like a good burger to be honest. But those who disagree with the food choice, in my opinion, are just looking for another thing to criticize our president on.— Calvin Mansfield, Danvers, Mass.Unfortunately, I’m a sucker for fast food. Regardless of it’s unhealthiness, it’s still tasty, and I would not be opposed to being at a buffet with fast food. However, where I think this buffet falls short is how it pokes fun at the government shutdown. Because the federal government does not have chefs that are currently able to work, Trump spent his own money to buy fast food as a replacement. I think what this image leaves is an “oh well” attitude regarding the shutdown, presenting as if fast food is a viable replacement for the chefs. Federal jobs are not something that can easily be compensated for during the shutdown; you cannot go to a drive through to get most federal services like you can fast food. In addition, isn’t the point of professional sports to encourage health? Although I understand the comical irony that this could draw, I think it would be more respectful to find another way to present a quality meal to these players who earned their way to the white house. They can get McDonald’s any other day of the week! Overall, I think it takes away from the whole event, and makes it less of a unique and special experience for the players.— Emily Whalen, MassachusettsI think that the quality of food served to the Clemson Tigers on Monday is a bit unprofessional. I wouldn’t go as far as to say this is a form of disrespect to the Tigers. I’m sure some of the Tigers really enjoyed the fast-food dining experience. However, I think something of higher quality could have been served to the team. I love fast-food, but it seems to me like Trump could have put in less money and more effort into the feast- especially since there was a lot of leftovers. He could have catered something at a restaurant- where the food would actually be hot. This is just my opinion, and I hope no members of the team were offended by Trump and his unusual feast.— Brian E., Masterman, Philadelphia, Penn.