(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with Democrats’ efforts to end the partial government shutdown, and a look at this morning’s jobs report. And it’s Friday, so there’s a new news quiz.Hours after Democrats took control of the House on Thursday, representatives approved two measures that would reopen government agencies that have been closed for nearly two weeks over a budget impasse. The votes were nearly all along party lines.Both pieces of legislation are almost certain to die in the Senate. The majority leader, Mitch McConnell, has said he wouldn’t bring to a vote measures that President Trump doesn’t support, and the House bills don’t include the $5 billion in border wall funding Mr. Trump is demanding. The new speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi, calls such financing “an immorality.”In the Senate: Mr. McConnell is facing pressure from members of his party to resolve the stalemate. On Thursday, Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado became the first Republican in the chamber to publicly call for an end to the shutdown — with or without wall funding.Closer look: The current spending impasse seems different from ones during the Clinton and Obama eras, our chief Washington correspondent writes. There’s little sense of urgency on either side about finding a resolution.Voices: The shutdown has left 800,000 federal workers either furloughed or working without pay. “They have to realize that this affects everyday people,” said a corrections officer at a federal prison in Florida. “It’s like a political chess game that they’re playing, and we seem to be pawns.”The 2019 freshman class in the House is the most racially diverse and most female ever. It includes the first Native American congresswomen, the first Muslim congresswomen and the first Palestinian-American woman. Meet all of the new lawmakers in the 116th Congress.Watch: Nancy Pelosi, who in 2007 became the first woman elected speaker, reclaimed the gavel on Thursday. In her speech, she celebrated the diversity in the House.The Daily: In today’s episode, one of our congressional reporters discusses the scene on Thursday.Revenue warnings this week from Apple and Delta Air Lines suggest that the U.S. economy and corporate profits are slowing more than expected, in part because of the trade dispute with China.Many companies will be reporting fourth-quarter results in the coming weeks, and the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Kevin Hassett, said on Thursday that there could be a torrent of bad news.For you: If the recent market turmoil makes you want to flee — or shift your 401(k) into cash — that’s understandable. It’s also a bad idea, our senior economics correspondent writes.Today: The U.S. economy added 312,000 jobs in December, the Labor Department reported today, far more than analysts expected. The unemployment rate rose to 3.9 percent from 3.7 percent.From Opinion: Apple’s announcement about missing its revenue targets suggests the current wave of innovation is waning, our columnist writes in an Op-Ed.Paul Whelan, the security chief of an international auto parts manufacturer, loved to travel around Russia and was in contact on social media with ordinary citizens there, including retired members of the military.On Thursday, the Russian authorities charged Mr. Whelan, 48, with espionage. The U.S. government refused to publicly discuss Mr. Whelan’s status in detail, but former C.I.A. officers said they didn’t think he was a spy.Why it matters: Mr. Whelan’s arrest comes after a Russian woman, Maria Butina, pleaded guilty last month in Washington to conspiring to act as a foreign agent. Current and former officials said it was possible Mr. Whelan was seized to exchange him for Ms. Butina.Vicente Zambada Niebla was groomed from an early age to take control of the Sinaloa drug cartel. But his lawyers said that he secretly worked for years as a spy for the Drug Enforcement Administration, providing information about his rivals in exchange for running his business freely.On Thursday, he described in detail to a New York courtroom the workings of the drug-trafficking empire of his father’s former partner, Joaquín Guzmán Loera, known as El Chapo.Travel advisory for China: The State Department warned U.S. citizens on Thursday that they could face arbitrary detention if they travel to China. The advisory comes after the recent arrest of a Chinese executive in Canada at the request of the U.S.Subway reprieve: Plans for a 15-month shutdown of the L train tunnel between Manhattan and Brooklyn were abruptly halted on Thursday by Gov. Andrew Cuomo. The new project would keep full train service during weekdays and close just one of the tunnel’s two tubes on nights and weekends.Hotel hacking: Marriott International said this morning that the number of people affected by a recent security breach was 383 million, not 500 million as previously thought. But for the first time it conceded that its Starwood hotel unit didn’t encrypt the passport numbers of roughly five million guests.Snapshot: Above, a snow-covered Grand Canyon on Thursday. The national park in Arizona is among those that have been affected by the partial government shutdown, although it remains accessible to visitors.In memoriam: Herb Kelleher helped reshape the airline industry by combining low fares with better customer service at Southwest Airlines. He died on Thursday at 87.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.One woman, 52 places: Jada Yuan spent 2018 traveling to each destination on our annual 52 Places to Go list. Almost 75,000 miles later, she offers seven lessons from a year on the road. No. 1: A year is short.Late-night comedy: The hosts are either off or in reruns this week. Our roundup will return.What we’re reading: This piece from Wired. Randy Archibold, a deputy sports editor, says the “engrossing story of a highly coveted interstellar rock that crash landed in the Peruvian highlands blends an old fashioned treasure hunt with very complicated questions of science, indigenous sovereignty, greed and modernity.”Cook: Roasted squash with turmeric-ginger chickpeas. Perfect with a scattering of pomegranate seeds for color and crunch.See: The final play by the English playwright Sarah Kane, “4:48 Psychosis,” reimagined as a chamber opera. It’s in New York City as part of the Prototype: Opera/Theater/Now festival, which opens on Saturday. Philip Venables, the composer, wants listeners to appreciate “joy and love and good things in our lives more.”Read: These 11 books are recommended by our editors, including “Insurrecto” by Gina Apostol.Watch: The Golden Globes at 8 p.m. Eastern on Sunday on NBC. Will Lady Gaga take home an award for “A Star Is Born”? Will Christian Bale’s transformation into Dick Cheney for “Vice” bring home the gold? Our columnist Kyle Buchanan has predictions.Smarter Living: Grudges can be good, by creating space for you to acknowledge that something bad happened, and that it matters. Try redefining “grudge” as an experience to learn from.We also have tips on getting the most from a health savings account, and have four simple words to help you live well.Some of us are still sorting through the year-end “best of” lists. Notably, many video game lists included a new release with roots in 1984: Tetris Effect.It features a modern visual and sonic experience, including an acclaimed virtual-reality mode. But its core is the same gameplay that a Russian programmer, Alexey Pajitnov, created in his original title, Tetris.In that version — and in more than 200 subsequent official releases — seven shapes (configurations of four squares, which the company calls Tetriminos) stream one by one from the top of the screen. The player seeks to organize them to fill horizontal rows, which then clear from the field of play. The game ends when uncleared areas fill the playing grid. (Because of Soviet-era contracts, Mr. Pajitnov only began to get Tetris royalties in 1996.)A report in The Times in 1988 said players found it “surprisingly addictive.”That has been borne out. Players report seeing the Tetriminos away from the screen, including while dreaming.The phenomenon’s name? The Tetris Effect.That’s it for this briefing. Have a good weekend.— ChrisThank youTo Aisha Harris for filling in on cultural ideas while Eleanor Stanford was away, and Kenneth R. Rosen, who’s heading off for a bit, for Smarter Living ideas. Brian Hoerst, a video game enthusiast who provides publishing support in our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the scene on Capitol Hill as Democrats took control of the House.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Chicago football team (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times created a reporting group dedicated exclusively to climate coverage in 2017.