We know we tell you every week how much we love reading your responses to our writing prompts, but some weeks are special.Maybe it was the questions we asked, but all of us at The Learning Network agree that you posted especially moving descriptions of your lives and experiences this time around. We loved, too, how you responded to each other, respectfully acknowledging differences and seeking out common ground. If only all discussions on the Internet could be like this.On the day we acknowledge the one-year anniversary of the Parkland shooting, we hope that what Amira from Northbrook  wrote in response to our question  about family is true: “I feel that as a society we’re starting to become more caring towards one another.”So a warm welcome and thank you to some of the newer classes who joined us — Chicago; East View Academy; Glen Ellyn, Ill.; Horsham, Penn.; Lathrop, Calif.; Media, Penn.; Patino High School in Fresno, Calif.; San Jose, Calif.; and Sarasota, Fla., — and gratitude to the classes who keep the conversation going week after week: Bryant, Ark.; Danvers, Mass.; Hoggard High School in Wilmington, N.C.; Julia R. Masterman Secondary School in Philadelphia; Northbrook, Ill.; and Providence, R.I.Though we won’t be publishing our Current Events Conversation roundup next week as many schools in the U.S. are off, we’ll be back on Feb. 28 with an edition that includes two week’s-worth of comments. See you then!Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted.__________According to a recent survey, the definition of the American dream is changing — from the opportunity for material success and social mobility to the “freedom of choice in how to live” — and many believe that they are living it.We asked students: What does the American dream mean to you? Some shared intimate stories of their parents and grandparents immigrating to the United States and achieving success through hard work and sacrifice. Others dared to imagine lives that were about more than status and wealth.In the United States, the opportunity for a better lifeThe American dream has always been the motto that has pushed my mother and father everyday of their lives. My mom, a village girl from India growing up never gave a thought to come to America because usually it was impossible. Even though my dad had a good life growing up, in India usually the people who had a lot of money were only able to go to America. While my mother was in college she read through so many textbooks about American doctors and watched the news late at night to learn English dreaming one day to go to America. When my parents got married and came to America all they had with them was a suitcase filled with some clothes and a picture of their family. While settling in they were on their own to find an apartment, job, money and other necessities because they had n family or friends in California. There were also instances were my parents went into debt they had decided 1 time to go back to India and they have cried many nights as well. Thanks to my parents believing in the American dream I was able to become a US citizen and now live a happy life in Philadelphia.— Eleena John, Philly, PAI have witnessed the American dream in action. My father was born in Hungary to a mother and father that were both survivors of the holocaust. His father was liberated from Auschwitz and his mother from Bergen Belsen. My father came to America with nothing but a pair of black pants and a white shirt. He stayed with his uncle for 3 years and eventually put himself through college and medical school. He has created a successful practice and makes enough money to support my family everyday. That is the American dream. To build yourself up from absolutely nothing, to grind for every last penny in order to make your dreams a reality. I witnessed the American dream first hand. I watched a man battle from one of the deepest holes imaginable in order to give his children the opportunity to have a better life than he did.— Tibor K, Glenbrook North HighschoolI think that the American dream can happen, but only if you work hard and try to reach that goal. My grandmother was originally from Lithuania and lived on a farm. When she was about 15, her family decided to come to America because of her country getting overrun with communists. She took a huge steamship crowded with thousands of people just to make it to New York. She then started working in a factory and living off food stamps. Her life might have been difficult but in the end, she moved to Philadelphia and met my grandfather who had my mom and aunts and uncles. This is an example of the American dream actually happening to someone just like me or you. My grandmother had to work her way to achieve this experience, she did not sit around on the couch and binge watch Netflix all day. To achieve the American dream, you have to try to achieve what you want in life and want to achieve it, you can’t sit around and wait for things to happen to you, you have to make those things happen to you.— Ona Stocovaz, J.R MastermanOpportunity isn’t available to everyoneI used to believe in the American dream; I used to believe that living in American meant that you could make something of yourself with ease. The American dream does not exist in my eyes, it’s a concept used to motivate people in a volatile economy and favored society. It used to exist, though … My grandfather came to the United States from Greece with not even a dollar to his name. He came to the “land of opportunity” in 1969, hoping to support his family and give them a life which was unavailable in 20th century Grecian poverty. Within a decade he created a family run pizzeria chain, bringing success to his life, his family’s, and the community. But, all of this came from tremendous hard work and determination, something I believe our newer generations lack. But what can one do in an era where cost of living is the highest it’s ever been? How much motivation can one hold when a living wage job is rare without a college degree, which leaves one in debt for years? The American dream existed in a time where it was realistic to live a balanced, successful life. Now, we’re in an age of economic bias with little social mobility; making it big is increasingly unachievable.— Alexandra Pechlivanidis, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NC… Depending on your identity and background, it could be more difficult to achieve the American dream. As a woman, it might be harder for me to achieve the same American dream as a man. In theory, the American dream is attainable for everyone, but I’m not sure everyone can achieve the same version of the American dream.— Colleen, Northbrook ILThe American dream of 2019When I was younger, the American Dream consisted of a few things: wealth, possessions, and power, all things similar to what was mentioned in the article. But as I’m getting older, and as our world is changing, my perspective is changing along with it. Of course it’s nice to have nice things. Who wouldn’t want to be able to buy whatever they wanted whenever they wanted for whoever they wanted? But today, as I see people in our world facing violence and injustice everyday, my idea of the American Dream is a little different.To me, the American Dream is having the ability to be safe and healthy, to not have to fear for my life everyday, to have access to the basic resources I need to survive. When I see people across the world, people in the same country as me, even people in my own community faced with violence and injustice, I start to notice how privileged I am compared to others. Maybe I don’t have all the nicest things or all the money in the world, maybe I don’t even have a little bit of it. But, I have access to the resources I need, I have a family, and I have a stable home. And that’s enough for me.— Libby Roth, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCNow that I am older and can understand what is going on in the world, I know that the idea of the “American Dream” is different for everyone. People that come to America to live the “Dream” don’t have the mindset of a white picketed fence, these people are coming here for more opportunities. The “Dream” for some people is to come here for a more prosperous life, that includes having more jobs for that require many different skills, or maybe to leave a warring country. The more modernized “American Dream” does not depict images of becoming wealthy, but more likely of having a happy, fun, and enjoyable life, which is also a healthier and more reachable goal of living than the expectation of living up to the classic “American Dream.” I believe that whatever someone wants there “American Dream” to be, that’s what it is to them. Everyone does not need to have the same dream.— Jenny Braswell, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCThis article definitely made me reconsider my views on the American dream. Now I picture the American dream as equality and safety for all, with loving family and friends that are supportive of all endeavors. My current definition of the American dream seems attainable. I have loving, supportive parents and friends that care about me deeply. People of different ethnicities, religions, and sexualities are climbing the social/political/economic ladder and beginning to reap the same benefits as others. As we progress in our efforts for true equality and lack of prejudices, I have hope that my generation will be able to make this not only the American dream, but the American reality.— Caitlyn Pellerin, Danvers, MAI think the American dream has evolved throughout every generation and that it’s a relative concept. My definition of the American dream is different from my parents because when I think about my mom and my grandparents, their dream was to get to America and have a better life. They achieved their American dream. My parents have managed to give my brother and me a better life than they had, not just financially, but a different way of growing up. When I think about what I believe is my American dream, I picture myself fulfilled in whatever I choose to be doing in my future. Whether it’s having a successful career or a family, as long as I am independent and thriving I’ll achieve my American dream. I think the American dream is something worth striving for, but I also believe that it’s something people have to create their own definitions for; everyone is different, and people have different dreams.— Sarah G, Northbrook, ILWe have grown up having crazy imaginations. These imaginations were never destined to be our reality. We grew up dreaming of unicorns and princesses, luxury and wealth. Money and gold became our everything and that’s all we thought about when we were younger as if these dreams could arise. My sister, for example, loves to sing. Her whole life she dreamed about going on American Idol or The Voice. To pursue her dream of becoming famous and filling the world with her amazing voice. But once we are truly able to dissect the lives of those that are famous, surrounded by luxury, I feel very bad for them. Like a grotesque dream. The Kardashians for example. Their whole life has been on camera, all the bad displayed to the world the second it happens. Constantly changing their bodies with procedures. Constantly fitting the world and all of its desires. But imagine a world where you were with the person you love most, holding hands, never letting go. The touch and warmth of them making you feel like home. Like nothing in this world can ever inhibit your goals. The real American dream is to enjoy the luxuries together. To inhabit the most love that your body can handle and to relish in it.— Elona K, Glenbrook North High School__________On Feb. 4, the British government announced that, alongside mathematics, science and history, students in England would now be learning mindfulness in school. We asked students if they would want to take a such a class and if they thought all schools should do more to improve students’ well-being.They overwhelmingly said yes — taking a break during the day, having a moment for self-reflection, gaining skills to manage stress and learning how to talk about mental health would all be immensely beneficial for their overall well-being. But a few cautioned against viewing mindfulness classes as the be-all-end-all solution to mental illness.A class on mindfulness? Sign me up!Yes! As a high school student, I know that so many teenagers suffer from some form of mental illness and are not getting the help they need. My neighbor recently was hospitalized for depression and was taken out of school for a least three weeks. She, like too many others, reach this breaking point because we aren’t taught how to take care of ourselves mentally …The question isn’t “should” schools have a mindfulness class; it’s “why” we don’t have one already. To be honest, if schools really cared about their student’s overall wellbeing, then a mindfulness class is a no-brainer. We are not just learning sponges that suck up information all day. We are humans too. Just as schools teach us about the world around us, they must also teach us about ourselves. It’s time to actually take action and find solutions to this ongoing mental concern.— Lili, ILTime in the day to put my mind at ease, especially during the most chaotic seven hours of the day would make a huge impact on my mood, grades, energy, and desire to function in general. I feel that schools setting a time for mindfulness and meditation classes is a great idea, one that many students would appreciate and find helpful. The mental pause in between studying for tests and analyzing writing would help in countless ways some for me personally being; more energetic, happier, less stressed, and better management over my schoolwork and grades, all making this practice time an even better idea.— Lilli Peluso, MassachusettsMental health is crucial to every living person. For our entire lives in school, we have taken Physical Education to equip ourselves with methods of staying physically healthy in the future. This class trains students to get up and be active for long-term continuation, but there is not significant attention being put toward mental health. Especially in high school, students (often) feel pressured to do their best, receive the best grades, be the most social, win the most competitions and maintain a happy persona. In reality, these pressures are incredibly detrimental to our mental health as we begin to focus our efforts on perfection over improvement. I believe that we should learn, early on in life, how to balance stress. A mental health class in high school can 1) help improve our mentalities in the present moment and 2) teach us how to cope with difficulties later on in life.— Sami L., NorthbrookTeaching mindfulness is an essential addition to every school’s curriculum. Learning to reflect and understand one’s self is arguable more important than perhaps a physics lesson … Why learn chemistry equations when I could be spending my time pursuing and developing what I am actually passionate about. But a class in mindfulness has life-long benefits for all. Girls, guys, doctors, teachers, performers, lawyers, accountants, you, and me would benefit immensely, taking a pause during our crazy lives to live in the present and reflect upon the moment.— Alexis, NorthbrookInstead of putting academic studies as first priority, schools should create a balance between mindfulness and academic studies. By creating a balance, school could be made into a happy environment where there is a change of behavior, concentration levels, and self-esteem. Not only will this benefit students but it will also benefit the entire school as well. Statistics have shown that schools that have included mindfulness sessions in a school day have a result of 50% fewer rule infractions, 38% fewer suspension days, 25% fewer absentee days, and better performance on attention tests like the ADD-H Teacher-Ratings scale.— Alissa, PAA five-minute mental check-in at the beginning of the day may not seem like much, but it could force a student to examine their own state. Are they hungry? Have they been neglecting breakfast? Did they sleep? With the amount of work, responsibilities, and social obligations most teens face, we often don’t get a moment of rest and self-reflection until our head hits the pillow at the end of the day. Mindfulness and the ability to take a second to be aware of our physical presence and mental state are important.— Faye, ChicagoBreaking the taboo of mental illnessI believe if this program starts, then we can better express our emotions and be more open to ourselves and others about our mental health.My elementary school had a class similar to what the article was discussing. It was a weekly class were the teacher talks us through how to handle certain situations about bullying, being aware of others feelings and being able to talk about what’s affecting us. From these classes, a foundation was created to be mindful of others and to be comfortable about talking with them. With these skills, I became an aware and comforting person to chat with about mental health problems. Hopefully, others will see my efforts and learn to do the same.— Kathryn Meehan, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCMental health is a topic that many still find taboo or unimportant. Most students struggle with making sure they get all their work done, being social, and at the same time taking care of themselves. In my own experience, taking care of myself did not take priority and my mental health suffered because of that. My school had never taught me how to deal with all of the work they were giving me, they just assumed I’d be able to handle everything even though I’d never had to before. Schools should begin including mindfulness in education, maybe not as a core class, but as something to think about. Some of my teachers now have meditation at the beginning of class for a few minutes where we think about our breathing and just calm ourselves down before the day starts. Just a slight change like that can make a huge difference. Making sure that parents, teachers, and students are all educated on mental health and mindfulness is really the best way to help students with their stress and anxiety.— Amelia, Northbrook, ILHaving a specific class dedicated to mindfulness would also bring up the subject on mental health in a more positive way. It would decrease the stigma around it and would help let students know that it’s okay to talk about and they would feel more open to talk about it. Overall, having a class about mindfulness would be really beneficial.— Alyssa Rich, Danvers, MABreathing exercises don’t address the root of teenage stressI’m not sure mindfulness is the solution we need to alleviate students’ stress. Yes, practicing mindfulness has its merits, and I think there is value in having a class dedicated for that, but there are limitations. My school has an ultracompetitive atmosphere, sometimes toxic and cutthroat. Mindfulness can help with symptoms of stress, but the root cause should be tackled as well. To be honest, practicing mindfulness doesn’t seem to be for me. I don’t find my stress levels to decrease or for my wellbeing to be, at the very least, okay. College, homework load, jobs, family obligations, and socializing — these things are not disappearing when I’m meditating.— Eugene, IllinoisWhile I believe that learning mindfulness in school holds value, this type of meditation alone cannot suffice the complex stress and pressure that young adults face as they grow in adolescence. True, simple tactics of breathing exercises may benefit manageable cases like random sparks of nervosity, but complex struggles such as ongoing bullying, OCD, or internal phobias may require less independent exercises and more deep discussion with others from counseling to therapy.— Tabitha Waite, Bryant High School, ARAs a high school student I don’t think schools should teach mindfulness, because I don’t think it can really help students with stress. Yes us students do suffer high stress levels, but personally mindfulness hasn’t given me positive results. I’ve found other ways to deal with stress that are more productive then mindfulness, such as exercising and sleeping enough. I can’t speak for everyone, but personally I believe schools should NOT teach mindfulness. And if they do some students will benefit while others won’t.— Oscar, Florida__________In her essay for The Edit, “What’s a ‘Normal’ Family, Anyway?” Claire Huag writes, “My family isn’t exactly traditional, and I’m better for it.” In this Student Opinion question, we asked students what they thought.Below, we’ve included many of their comments to demonstrate the point so many of them sought to make: There is no single definition of family — who you count as your people and the role they play in your life is different for everyone and entirely up to you.Many definitions of “family”I believe that there are two kinds of family, the family your born with, and the family that you can choose. I think that these two things overlap frequently, but truly the only family that matters is the family and company that you choose to keep. You could be born to a family that neglects you, but while they would always be your biological family, your friends could form a more powerful closer family. While this is my interpretation of family, it is also my opinion that you are entitled to your own opinion, but so is everyone else. This basically means that what works for you works for you, but you can’t force it to work for others.— Samuel Hamilton, MastermanA family, in my opinion, is one or more people that you can connect to and act truly like yourself in front of.— June Lee, Glenbrook High SchoolFamily to me are the one who comfort me the ones who understand my struggles and who keep me company.— Rebecca, Northbrook ILI define the word family as people you would choose spend time with, take a bullet for and never get sick of.— Phaelan, NorthbrookSomeone who is “like family” to you can be defined as someone who you can rely on, someone who you can always trust, or ask for advice or support whenever need be. It is someone who you love, and someone who loves you, someone who is always willing to do anything for you, and is someone who you can move mountains for.— Hanna Sh, J.R. Masterman, Philadelphia, PAFamily is an extension of you. A representation that no matter who you are or where you come from. A part of you.— Claira, IllinoisFamily should be shaped around what you need them to be for you. If you’re upset, they should be your shoulder to lean on. If you’re happy, they should be there to stretch the happiness out for as long as them. Family is love, and that love should stick until the world ends.— Lev, Chicago, ILFamily to me is someone who is willing to support you with what you are doing, but are also willing to correct your mistakes if you are making mistakes.— Rachel Widjaja, Masterman, Philadelphia… A family is the people who you can always turn to when you feel like there is nobody left in the world. They are the people who can always be there, whether that means that they are friends or related to you in a definitive way.— Lily Chancey, Philadelphia, MastermanI think that there are more important pieces to family than the gender, orientation, number of parents, and area of residence. Things like stability, interest, respect, involvement, and care. Any family, no matter the makeup, can fulfill (or fail to fulfill) these.— Emma Johnson, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCPeople say that “blood is thicker than water” but I prefer the alternate version: “the blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the womb.” … Nobody should associate with people that hurt them over and over because of some gene-related societal obligation. Those who love and support you are your family, and not necessarily those who are related to you.— Natasha A., Bryant, ARWhat does your family look like?In my eyes, family is defined as love. Not just any love, but unconditional love. Unconditional love means that no matter what happens, (people change, people move away, you spend years apart, someone does something horrible, etc.), you will still love one another.I have spent the last ten years dancing with the same group of people. We have had many ups and downs, which is expected with a large group of 12 year old girls. To be honest, a lot of us would probably not be friends if we did not dance. Although we may not be the best of friends, we are all still connected. It is almost unsettling when you sacrifice for people you would not normally like. However, in my experience, you do not have to like someone to love them. To love someone means to respect them. Each of us have tremendous respect for one another. All of us try our best to understand one another and to appreciate the others values and opinions even if we disagree.— Bella, Glen Ellyn, IlMy family is made up of two parents and four children, and I am the only biological kid from both of my parents. One of my siblings is adopted from Puerto Rico, and my other two siblings have a different mom than I do. But that doesn’t make our love or support any weaker. I never call my half siblings my “half siblings” and I never call my adopted brother my “adopted brother”. We are a family, regardless of blood, and we love and support each other no matter what.— Jayne, Northbrook, ILBecause of the fact that I was never close with my dad, I often leaned on my uncle for support and continued to do so to this day. He was the one who always understood me, who listened to me, who made me feel important as a young girl growing up in a complex society. He taught me lessons about life that I could not be more grateful to have learned from him. My point is, my uncle, being like a father figure to me growing up taught me that family doesn’t always have to be a mother, a father, and a brother or sister.— Maya, NorthbrookI have experienced family in many aspects. One example of family within my life could be my football team that I am a member of. During the season we are together for 3 to 5 hours a day at practice or a games. In the season we experienced an injury within the team. The injury was very sad moment because he was sent to the hospital mid game and was a cause for the people to work harder and play better in the game. It sucked seeing him leave, and directly after the game I felt a pain in my gut telling me I needed to go see him in the hospital. Thinking back on this now I realize that this feeling was caused by the fact that I thought of him as my brother on and off the field. We both worked out together, and pushed each other into being successful. Along with everybody else I felt like I would sacrifice anything for him at that point because there was nothing else but to hope for him to get better.— Jacob Stone, United StatesFamily is about being there for each other when they are in need. I have not seen family in traditional sense for almost the entirety of my life. From struggles like divorce and adoption and only seeing my siblings and mother every other week and many others, we are still family. We still support and love one another even if hard times create a disconnect. I have also seen family in biological aspects. A few years ago I set my mind out to find my biological family. I feel as if they are an extension to my family. I feel a bond with my biological brothers and biological parents in a different sense then with my actual family that not many people will understand. Family is about a connection you feel, whether through love and support or biological.— Taylor D, Northbrook, ILFamily. Family is the feeling of comfort with a person. Having trust in a person. Being able to go to your home and to know you can give your family a hug. That they love you and you love them. Family is the friends that are always there for you. I have a couple of those. One of them is named Maeve. She is a bundle of joy to my day. She’s my coffee every day. I know that we are like sisters. Like family. I have another friend and her name is Olivia. She is a kid in a candy shop. She has so much joy and happiness that she shares with everyone. She is a true friend. She is family that will always be in my heart.— Jenesis Moreno, Masterman; Philadelphia, PAMy family at first glance would seem, by society’s standards, normal. As a kid I thought the same thing, two parents, grandparents on both sides of the family along with cousins, and a sibling. For years I grew up getting to know these people and how they related to me, however one day I was told that my grandmother wasn’t actually related to me … To me it didn’t matter if she was my ‘normal’ blood realized grandma, instead she was the person who only loved me, which made her my grandma.— Benjamin Blankenship, Hoggard High, Wilmington, NCIn my life my step-dad is who I call “dad” and has been my best friend, biggest role model, and biggest supporter my entire life, but none of this is based on blood because it really doesn’t have to as long as you act as a family in your actions. My step-dad has never treated me any differently than his biological kids and in a way knowing that he cares so much about me even when I’m not his biological daughter makes the connection even more special.— Paula, NorthbrookMy dog is not blood related to me so does that mean I can’t call her family? I don’t see why not because I love her with all my heart and would be devastated if anything happened to her. Family is about love in my opinion.— Alex Lee, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NC… My immediate family would include my mom, dad, sister, and I. I also have four grandparents, three uncles, one aunt, and two cousins related by blood. But instead of just blood related family, I have lots of family who aren’t blood related to me at all. One of my great-grandmothers had three husbands throughout her life, making my grandfather have a stepbrother. Another one of my grandmothers’ mother had died when she was very young, so she had a stepmother growing up and barely remembered her biological mother. I even have several uncles who aren’t uncles at all - they are just very close friends of my dad. All of these non-blood related relatives are connected by love - which is why I think a family does not have to be biological, it could just be made up of the people you love.— Kaya Perelman, Masterman School, PhiladelphiaWhat role does your family play in your life?I think a family is similar to a tree. In life, you will go on countless journeys with experiences involving tons of different people from different backgrounds, gaining knowledge and perspective. But this life can be overwhelming, and having a system you can depend on is essential. Like a tree, a family is something you can lean on for its entire existence.— Ethan, Northbrook, ILMy family is my foundation for my life, because if the world beats you down to nothing, you always have that foundation. I think that friends are a little less important than family, because family is always first. Whether it is your actual family or not, family is first.— Joseph Foglietta, Danvers, MAThe family we create by choice are just as important as the people who we are directly related to by blood. Sometimes I can’t tell my family serious problems because most of them are a different generation so they just can’t understand your modern day problems. This is also why the family we meet and communicate to by choice is so much easier to connect with. They are living in the same world as you and you are most likely going through very similar problems as you. At the end of the day, whoever you consider being your family, will always show you this unconditional love and endless support that will keep you moving forward in life.— Kristina Kitsul, Masterman PhiladelphiaI think the definition of family is love, support, and constant forgiveness. I have a very conventional family, my mom, dad, brother, and two dogs. To me, a family isn’t defined as having blood-ties with someone. A family is made up of people, related or not, who will be there in your best, and worst times. My family has kept me moving forward in times when I just wanted to give up, and I honestly cannot tell you where I would be without them.— Abby Bowker, Hoggard High School, Wilmington NC