The NFL's conference championship games couldn't have provided much of a better platform for the league's stars.All four of the teams remaining boast a Pro Bowl passer, as the Patriots' Tom Brady, Chiefs' Patrick Mahomes, Saints' Drew Brees and Rams' Jared Goff will all be in action on Sunday. And yet there's plenty of other skill-position talent that will be on display, including running backs Todd Gurley and Alvin Kamara as well as wide receivers Michael Thomas and Tyreek Hill, among others. And there's no shortage of notable names on the other side of ball, led by expected repeat defensive player of the year Aaron Donald.With all those marquee names in mind, we asked our NFL staff: Which star player will have the signature performance of Sunday and lead his team to the Super Bowl?Here are their answers:Justin Houston. Maligned all season – and, let’s be honest, rightly so – Kansas City’s defense was a wrecking crew against the Indianapolis Colts, deserving equal billing with Patrick Mahomes for getting the Chiefs their first-ever AFC Championship Game at home. And no one came up bigger than Houston, who sacked Andrew Luck twice, deflected a pass and had a fumble recovery.It’s no secret that pressuring Tom Brady will be the key Sunday, which means the Chiefs are going to need another star effort from their defense. But if Houston can duplicate last weekend’s performance, especially early in the game to set the tone, it’ll be a long day for Brady and the New England Patriots.Drew Brees. It's been a long time coming -- and three consecutive 7-9 finishes in the middle of the journey -- for the Saints icon to get another shot at Super Bowl glory. And the support system is set up perfectly: Home Dome advantage. Go-to receiver. Double-barreled running back combo. Big-play defense. Brees will do his part. Knowing how tough it is to get here, he won't blow it. Instead, he'll bring his A-game.  I’m gonna head off the reservation for a bit – it’s often where I’m most comfortable – and say Bill Belichick will be the star of the championship round. How will he do it? If I knew, I’d probably be comfortably retired … or a member of New England’s staff. But I’m fascinated to see what BB dreams up to slow down Patrick Mahomes and Co. The Patriots are renowned for their ability to negate an opponent’s top weapon, but that won’t be easy to do as it pertains to Mahomes, the NFL’s presumed MVP. I suspect Belichick will search for a way to make the forecasted frigid weather an equalizer. Maybe that means packing in against the run and taking away intermediate seam throws to Travis Kelce, potentially forcing Mahomes to try and throw a potentially slick ball deep and/or make Kansas City’s players run longer routes that might break down amid poor traction. Whatever it is, Belichick is sure to have something unexpected up his (cut off) sleeve.Chris Jones. No team generated more pressures at home this season than the Chiefs’ 118. To beat Tom Brady and the Patriots, Kansas City will need that. The Chiefs haven’t shown consistent ability to defend the run (27th) so limiting Brady and returning the ball to their high-flying offense in what could be another shootout will be key. Enter Chris Jones, who led Kansas City with 15.5 sacks and 29 quarterback hits. He also beat his block within 2.5 seconds on 35 percent of rushes this season per ESPN, second best pass-rush win rate in the league (the Rams’ Aaron Donald was first). Jones and fellow defensive linemen will make the difference in a game that, historically, seems to favor the postseason-proficient Patriots. They’ll limit Brady just enough to send the Chiefs back to the Super Bowl for the first time in 49 years. But sorry, Tom: Still no one will think y’all suck.After last week, I’m not going to doubt Tom Brady ever again. This is his time of year. This is why he’s the G.O.A.T. All season long, we’ve wondered if he and the Patriots were faltering, but whenever it mattered most, they came through. Now, with Bill Belichick having designed a game plan to slow the Chiefs’ offense, Brady is going to deliver once again and put his team in its ninth Super Bowl since 2000.I'm a little stunned that no one else has gone with Michael Thomas. Yes, the all-pro wide receiver's production is inextricably tied to that of Drew Brees, and Alvin Kamara also could play a pivotal role against a Rams defense that allowed a league-worst 5.1 yards per carry on the season. But the return of Aqib Talib alone won't erase memories of what Thomas did to Los Angeles' defense in Week 9, when he posted 12 catches for 211 yards and a touchdown. Fresh off a franchise-record 171 receiving yards in the divisional-round win over the Eagles, the second-year receiver might operate frequently out of the slot, forcing Talib and fellow cornerback Marcus Peters out of their element, or in tandem with Kamara to stretch the Rams' defense to its limit.It has to be Todd Gurley. The Saints excel at stopping the run, but Gurley is a gifted running back, so the test will be tougher. Not only that, but he also thrives at catching the ball out of the backfield – on dump offs or on designed passing plays like screens. But there’s one reason why Gurley’s rushing production is so essential. It opens up the passing game, and specifically freezes defenders when the Rams dial up play-action passes. Quarterback Jared Goff, according to Pro Football Reference, had 34.6 % of its passes this season come out of play action, the highest rate for any passer in the NFL. That split-second hesitation from defenders offers L.A.’s speedy targets just enough time to get open. But if Gurley is bottled up, the efficacy of the play action declines. And it may end the season for the Rams, too.