NEW YORK – In 24 days, Tony Romo will dissect the Super Bowl as an analyst for CBS Sports for the first time.And as he prepares to cover Sunday’s divisional-round playoff game between the Los Angeles Chargers and New England Patriots, Romo sat down with reporters to discuss his career progression, his preparation for Super Bowl LIII and his perspective on the eight remaining teams in the NFL postseason.And out of those eight, Romo pointed to four squads – the top two seeds in both the AFC (the Kansas City Chiefs and New England Patriots) and NFC (the New Orleans Saints and Los Angeles Rams) – as the top threats to win a title.“I think the home teams have an advantage more so now than probably in some other years," Romo said Thursday inside the CBS Broadcast Center as part of the network’s Super Bowl media day. “There’s no perfect answer here. The Chiefs are the most explosive team. It’s hard to go win in New England. It’s hard to go win in New Orleans. I think the Rams, if they can stop the run, might be the best team in the NFL. But they haven’t been able to stop the run lately.”Two teams notable teams from the NFC East were conspicuously absent from Romo's list.The first is the Dallas Cowboys, the team Romo played for each of his 14 seasons in the NFL. The Cowboys won the division and claimed the NFC’s No. 4 seed with a 10-6 record. They then went on to beat the Seahawks 24-22 in the wild-card round.And though Romo didn’t mention the Cowboys initially, he cited two reasons why he thinks they should be competitive when asked about their chances as legitimate contenders,“If you can stop the run and run the football, you’re going to be in every game,” Romo said. “If you look at the front seven of the Cowboys, they’re going to be in every game because the defense you just can’t go up and down the field on them. You just can’t. This will be one of their tougher tests this week because their defense will keep them in the game. But you just have to score a touchdown in the second half at the right moment. And if you do, the Cowboys are absolutely in a position in which they can win the Super Bowl.”That tougher test comes Saturday night against the second-seeded Los Angeles Rams (13-3).The other team Romo didn’t initially mention was the defending Super Bowl-champion Philadelphia Eagles. And because of the surge that backup Nick Foles once again has given the Eagles in the postseason, Romo didn’t discount Philly, either.“The Foles magic,” Romo said. “We’ll see. If he wins this one, I think they’re going to put a statue up of him. It’s incredible. But it also goes to show the ability of going through progressions quickly and feel. Certain stuff, certain systems just click, and I think you’re seeing a player play with the freedom and confidence. He does a great job of standing under pressure and delivering the football. They’re dangerous.”Follow Lorenzo Reyes on Twitter @LorenzoGReyes. 