After another playoff appearance that did not end with a World Series title, the Yankees pinpointed their pitching staff as an area for improvement. They threw money at relief pitchers Adam Ottavino and Zack Britton, and at C.C. Sabathia and J.A. Happ, two veteran starting pitchers.Their biggest pitching addition, however, was James Paxton, a talented but oft-injured left-hander whom the Yankees acquired from the Seattle Mariners in November in exchange for a package that included their top prospect, Justus Sheffield.Paxton’s pinstripes debut ended with a 5-3 loss to the lowly Baltimore Orioles on Saturday afternoon, the second game of the season, because of a few mistakes, including by catcher Gary Sanchez, and an offense that was dormant until late in the game.“He went out there and dominated, but we just weren’t able to come up in the big situation with those runs he needed,” Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge said. “We got that one for him, but against any major league team, one isn’t enough. Plus, a couple costly errors. You make errors in the major leagues, they come back to bite you.”Paxton, known as the Big Maple for his 6-foot-4 frame and Canadian origins, flashed his medley of speeds, from mid- to high-90s fastballs to slower cutters to even slower curveballs.Because of injuries, Paxton’s body of work is limited. The most he has thrown in any season is 160 innings, which he did last season. But he has trended up over the years; he threw a no-hitter last season and notched a career-best 208 strikeouts.“Going out there the first inning, I was pretty excited and nervous, but I felt good about it and let it energize me,” Paxton said.But with little margin for error on Saturday, the few blunders cost Paxton, who struck out five and allowed two runs — one earned — over five and two-thirds innings.His unraveling began in the sixth inning. Jesus Sucre singled and Richie Martin blooped a hit down the first-base line. Two batters later, Paxton’s fastball down the middle of the plate to Dwight Smith resulted in a game-tying single.The inning worsened when the Orioles attempted a double steal and Sanchez’s throw to second base sailed into center field. Martin scored to give the Orioles a 2-1 lead.“If I throw it well, it would’ve been an out,” Sanchez said. “But one isn’t perfect. My bad.”Soon thereafter, Paxton exited the game, acknowledging the Yankee Stadium crowd as he walked toward the dugout.An inning later, Sucre smacked a run-scoring single off relief pitcher Chad Green. With Jonathan Holder pitching in the ninth, a throwing error by third baseman D.J. LeMahieu helped extended the Orioles’ lead.The Yankees’ only run for eight innings came in the fourth thanks to LeMahieu. The Yankees signed him to a two-year, $24 million contract this winter because of his Gold Glove Award-winning defense and high-contact bat. Although a longtime second baseman, LeMahieu was willing to play all over the infield.Starting at third base instead of Miguel Andujar, who was the designated hitter, LeMahieu made a few standout plays to end Orioles’ threats. At the plate in the fourth inning, his single up the middle scored Gleyber Torres for a 1-0 Yankees lead.Although the Orioles posted the worst record in baseball last season and are rebuilding this season, their pitchers vexed the Yankees’ bats.The Yankees squandered a bases-loaded opportunity in the first inning, when Andujar grounded into a double play. They couldn’t push across base runners in later opportunities until a ninth-inning rally, led by Troy Tulowitzki’s solo blast, fell short with strikeouts by Giancarlo Stanton and Andujar.“We just couldn’t cash in enough,” Yankees Manager Aaron Boone said.