The years go by, the players retire, and if you knew them a bit, you remember little snapshots of their clubhouse routines.Mariano Rivera carefully signing baseballs — always legibly — and blowing on the ink so it would not smudge. Mike Mussina poring over crossword puzzles, challenging his mind to pass the time. Edgar Martinez weighing his bats on a food scale, inking a plus or a minus on the knob for a more precise measurement.Roy Halladay rarely appeared at his locker in Toronto or Philadelphia. He was usually sweating somewhere.“Hard work and humility,” said Brandy Halladay, his widow, summing up her late husband’s legacy on Wednesday. “You cannot walk in there with an expectation. You have to work for every single thing you’re going to get, and that’s what he did every day.”Rivera, Mussina, Martinez and Halladay achieved the highest honor for their meticulous preparation this week with their election to the Baseball Hall of Fame. All of them were American League contemporaries in the 2000s who knew each other intimately as competitors.Rivera set the saves record and won five championships for the Yankees, while Mussina and Halladay won none. Mussina had longevity — he earned 270 victories to Halladay’s 203 — but Halladay, a two-time Cy Young Award winner with a perfect game and a playoff no-hitter, had the moments and hardware that eluded Mussina.They all would agree on one thing, though: Martinez sure could hit. He batted .312 in his career but was even better against Rivera, Halladay and Mussina, at .375. Rivera joked on Wednesday that Martinez owed him dinner.“I helped him, too,” Mussina said. “Not as much as you.”Martinez hit five homers against Mussina — his most against any pitcher — and batted .307 (23 for 75). He was 8 for 18 (.444) off Halladay and 11 for 19 (.579) off Rivera. Only David Ortiz and Jason Varitek had more hits off Rivera, but both had at least twice as many at-bats against him.“Especially early in my career, man, I got two strikes on Edgar and the third one never showed up,” Rivera said after his election on Tuesday, adding on Wednesday, “When you face the type of hitter that Edgar was, you have to really, really bring your game, because he will have you for breakfast, lunch and dinner, like he did me.”Martinez was 8 for 9 off Rivera until 1997, when Rivera discovered his signature cutter while playing catch with Ramiro Mendoza before a game in Detroit. After that, things normalized between Martinez and Rivera — 3 for 10, including the one encounter that still bothers Martinez.In the 2000 American League Championship Series, Martinez came up as the tying run with two outs in the top of the ninth inning of Game 6.“I’m like: ‘O.K., he’s going to throw the cutter. I’m going to look middle-away like I always said.’ And then the first sinker I’ve seen off Mariano my whole career, he put a sinker in,” said Martinez, who grounded out meekly to short. “Game over, we’re going home. I would have traded all those hits just for that at-bat.”The Mariners have not come that close to the World Series since; they lost to the Yankees again in the next A.L.C.S., in five games. Mussina won his start in that series, but Martinez usually confounded him.“I could have a different order of pitches, I could try fastballs first, breaking balls first, get ahead in the count, get behind in the count — it didn’t matter,” Mussina said.“When you’re as good a hitter as he was, then you just say, ‘Listen, I’m going throw it in the middle and hope he hits it really hard right to somebody, because if I try real hard and he still gets a hit, is this going to make me mad?’ And honestly, sometimes you do that. You say: ‘I’m going to throw a sinker right down the middle, man. J ust hit it in the first two pitches and let’s move on, because you’re going to get a hit anyway.’ ”Mussina dominated many sluggers by reading their swings and serving up a pitch they could not handle. David Ortiz, Rafael Palmeiro, Alex Rodriguez and Jim Thome — who combined for more than 2,400 home runs — batted a combined .240 off him.But Martinez was hard for Mussina to read, because he never tried to do too much. Martinez said he learned his approach by watching hitters like George Brett, Jose Cruz and Kirby Puckett, who played a combined 52 seasons without ever striking out 100 times. Martinez did so only once, in 2004, his final season.“Most of the hitters, they look middle-in to pull,” Martinez said. “I wasn’t that type of hitter. I would look middle-away and inside I’d react. And if I worked on my mechanics in my swing path and my lower half, I was able to leave the bat in the zone longer. That’s why even if it’s something soft, the bat is still in the zone, and I could drive the ball to all fields or cover line to line.”Naturally, some pitchers vexed Martinez. He struggled against Nolan Ryan (1 for 19) and Pedro Martinez (3 for 25) and was hitless in his only game against Greg Maddux. But those three will not surround his plaque in Cooperstown. To the newest Hall of Famers, Martinez is part of their class but belongs in a class of his own.“Guys tried to hit the ball off the fence too much, and I’d get ’em on a ground ball to short or a fly ball to center, and that’s how I survived — Edgar didn’t do that,” Mussina said. “He just took a line drive to right field. It worked for him and it drove in a ton of runs and it frustrated me to death. That’s why he’s sitting up here. He did that to everybody.”