With starting pitchers working fewer and fewer innings these days, relievers are more important than ever. That is how the Yankees see it, at least, and they showed it again on Thursday by giving another three-year contract to an elite free-agent reliever.The Yankees reached agreement on a three-year, $27 million deal with Adam Ottavino, a right-hander from Brooklyn who starred last season for the Colorado Rockies. The deal was confirmed by a person with direct knowledge of the deal who was granted anonymity because Ottavino must pass a physical exam before the deal is official.Ottavino, 33, joins Zach Britton, Dellin Betances and Chad Green as overpowering setup men for closer Aroldis Chapman. The Yankees re-signed Britton — the former All-Star closer for Baltimore who joined the team in a trade last summer — for three years and $39 million this month.Ottavino grew up rooting for the Yankees; in 1998, at 12 years old, he was in the stands for David Wells’s perfect game. He attended P.S. 39 in Brooklyn, played ball at Prospect Park and graduated from the Berkeley Carroll School in 2003. Three years later, the St. Louis Cardinals drafted him in the first round out of Northeastern University.After the 2017 season, when he was left off the Rockies’ playoff roster, Ottavino used a vacant storefront in Harlem for his winter workouts, reinventing himself after a visit to the Driveline pitching complex near Seattle. The new pitch he designed, a cutter/slider hybrid, helped him to the best season of his career: a 2.43 earned run average across 75 games, with 112 strikeouts in 77⅔ innings.The Yankees had the fourth-best bullpen E.R.A. in the majors last season, at 3.38, and the best strikeout ratio, at 11.4 per nine innings. With Ottavino, they now have three of the majors’ top 12 pitchers in strikeout ratio from last season.Among pitchers with at least 50 innings in 2018, Chapman had the most strikeouts per nine innings, at 16.31; Betances ranked third, at 15.53; and Ottavino 12th, at 12.98. Green was not far behind, at 11.18, and while Britton is not as much of a pure power pitcher, hitters struggle to elevate his hard sinker.Ottavino throws a slider or cutter with more than half of his pitches. According to Statcast, opponents hit just .148 last season off the slider, which often renders hitters helpless with extreme GIF-worthy movement.As Ottavino proclaimed on an MLB.com podcast last month, “I would strike out Babe Ruth every time.” He added that he was not trying to disrespect Ruth, “but it was a different game. I mean, the guy ate hot dogs and drank beer and did whatever he did.”Ottavino, who has worn No. 0 for the last six seasons, might have a chance to join Ruth, Lou Gehrig and the rest as a rare Yankee with a single-digit uniform number. The team has retired every single-digit number except zero, which it has never issued.