LOS ANGELES — Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said before Sunday's finale between the Diamondbacks and Dodgers that this was one of the crazier opening series he had been a part of. The last of the four games didn't disappoint.A.J. Pollock hit a key double late, and the Dodgers were able to withstand a seven-run fourth inning by the Diamondbacks and rallied for three runs in the eighth for an 8-7 victory. The two-time defending NL champions took three of four games to start the season."There is a lot of excitement about what we've got going," said Pollock, who made it 7-all with his two-run double in the eighth against his former team. "It's good for the club to know that we can be behind the game late, and if we put good at-bats together good things can happen. Sometimes it doesn't always work out, but tonight it did."Pollock tied it with a shot down the line against Yoshihisa Hirano and advanced to third when right fielder Adam Jones misplayed it. Pollock — who signed with Los Angeles as a free agent this offseason after spending his entire career with Arizona— then scored the winning run on Max Muncy's sacrifice fly.Pollock had two hits in the game and seven in the series along with six RBIs. Cody Bellinger hit his fourth homer and had three hits, and Alex Verdugo drove in two.Los Angeles' offense scored 43 runs, which is the most they have scored in a four-game series, and hit 15 home runs."There were some at-bats that drove pitch counts up and let the next guy do his job," Roberts said. "The overall quality of at-bats is as good as I've seen over the past couple years."Dylan Floro (1-0), the sixth Los Angeles pitcher, worked an inning of scoreless relief. Kenley Jansen got his first save by retiring the Diamondbacks in order.Ketel Marte and Nick Ahmed each had two hits and two RBIs for Arizona. Starting pitcher Luke Weaver homered in his first game with Arizona but allowed five runs and six hits over 4 1/3 innings. Weaver's homer came during a seven-run fourth, in which the Diamondbacks took a 7-4 lead. The right-hander was part of the return from St. Louis in exchange for slugger Paul Goldschmidt.The Diamondbacks committed three errors, which loomed large for manager Torey Lovullo."We didn't execute in key situations and gave them a couple extra baserunners with some miscues," Lovullo said. "We did a good job getting the lead, but we couldn't hold on to it."Los Angeles jumped ahead with three runs in the first and one in the third. The Dodgers got their first three batters aboard in the first before Enrique Hernandez had a one-out sacrifice fly and Verdugo hit a two-run double to the gap in right-center.Bellinger extended the lead to 4-0 in the third with a home run to center on a 3-2 fastball by Weaver that he left near the middle of the zone.Walker Buehler allowed one hit over the first three innings before Arizona got to him the second time through the order. The right-hander allowed five runs and five hits in the shortest start of his career. It also marked the first time he didn't get a strikeout in a start.Ildemaro Vargas led off the fourth with a double and scored on David Peralta's single to center. Marte's two-run single chased Buehler, and Ahmed's two-run double off Pedro Baez gave Arizona a 5-4 lead. Weaver gave himself some insurance with a two-run homer to left on Baez's fastball.TRAINER'S ROOMDiamondbacks: Pitcher T.J. McFarland is scheduled to throw his next bullpen session Tuesday. The left-hander is on the 10-day injured list due to inflammation in his left shoulder.Dodgers: Shortstop Corey Seager and third baseman Justin Turner were not in the starting lineup. Manager Dave Roberts said he prefers not to sit both on the same day, but Friday's 13-inning game and Sunday being a day game after a night game were what prompted the move. Seager and Turner both came on to pinch hit.UP NEXTDiamondbacks: Merrill Kelly will make his major league debut Monday when Arizona opens a three-game series in San Diego.Dodgers: Left-hander Julio Urias makes his season debut as Los Angeles opens a three-game set with San Francisco on Monday.______