SAN DIEGO — Manny Machado brought in the go-ahead run with a bases-loaded grounder in the seventh inning, Chris Paddack struck out seven in five impressive innings in his major league debut and the San Diego Padres beat the San Francisco Giants 3-1 Sunday.Four pitchers combined on a two-hitter for the Padres, who took three of four from the Giants.Giants manager Bruce Bochy had Nick Vincent (0-1) walk Eric Hosmer to load the bases with one in the seventh to bring up Machado. Sam Dyson came on, and Machado grounded to shortstop Brandon Crawford. He got the force at second, but Machado beat Joe Panik's relay to first as Hunter Renfroe scored.It was Machado's first RBI with San Diego, who signed the All-Star slugger to a $300 million, 10-year contract early in spring training.Austin Hedges added an RBI single in the eighth.Vincent, who grew up in nearby Ramona, allowed one run and three hits in 1 1/3 innings in relief of Jeff Samardzija.Adam Warren (1-0) pitched two hitless innings for his first win with San Diego. Kirby Yates pitched the ninth for his third save in three chances.Paddack, 23, had an impressive debut. Relying on a fastball and changeup, he retired his first 10 batters, six by strikeout, including the fanning the side in the second. He walked Panik with one out in the fourth and got out of the inning when he struck out Yangervis Solarte and Panik was thrown out trying to steal second.The Giants broke through against the tall Texan in the fifth when Crawford singled to right with one out and scored on Pablo Sandoval's double to center.The Padres got Paddack off the hook for a loss in the bottom of the inning. Franchy Cordero walked while pinch-hitting for Paddack, advanced on Sandoval's throwing error and scored on Eric Hosmer's single to right.Paddack, the only right-hander in San Diego's rotation, pitched his way onto the opening day roster with a stellar spring. He made the jump from Double-A, where he pitched only 37 2/3 innings last season after starting out in Class A. He pitched just 90 innings last year after missing all of 2017 while rehabbing from Tommy John surgery.Paddack poked a line drive into right with the bases loaded in his first career plate appearance, but outfielder Gerardo Parra threw him out at first base.Samardzija, coming off an injury-marred season, allowed an unearned run and three hits in five innings while striking out two and walking four.TRAINER'S ROOMGiants: 3B Evan Longoria was off Sunday after fouling a ball off his left calf during his second at-bat in Saturday night's victory. He left the game after the top of the sixth.UP NEXTGiants: LHP Drew Pomeranz makes his season debut vs. LHP Julio Urias in the opener of a three-game series at the Los Angeles Dodgers.Padres: LHP Matt Strahm makes his season debut for San Diego. He made five starts as an opener last year as he was eased back from surgery on his torn left patellar tendon the previous season while with Kansas City. He threw 61 1/3 innings in 41 appearances last year.___