Spring training roundup: Cubs win behind Hamels' arm, batLeft-hander Cole Hamels allowed one run on three hits in five innings and helped his own cause with a solo homer as the Chicago Cubs beat the visiting Boston Red Sox 3-2 on Monday in Mesa, Ariz.Hamels, who had two strikeouts, didn't earn the win, but he left with a 2-1 lead after five innings. David Bote's solo homer in the seventh inning proved to be the difference.Andrew Benintendi got the only run off Hamels with a solo homer in the third, his second of the spring. Rick Porcello went four innings for Boston, allowing two runs and four hits while striking out three.Astros 12, Pirates 9Four different players homered for Houston in a victory over visiting Pittsburgh back in the home confines of Minute Maid Park. Nick Tanielu's two-run shot broke a tie in the sixth inning and proved to be the difference for the Astros. Francisco Cervelli went 2-for-3 with a two-run homer for the Pirates.Nationals 5, Yankees 3Anthony Rendon and Matt Adams each homered as Washington beat visiting New York back home at Nationals Park, giving Rendon five and Adams six this spring. Troy Tulowitzki hit his fourth homer for the Yankees.Mets 9, Orioles 7Dominic Smith's two-run homer in the top of the ninth lifted New York over Baltimore in Sarasota, Fla. Dwight Smith went yard twice for the Orioles.Phillies 3, Rays 2Malvin Matos' walk-off homer carried Philadelphia over Tampa Bay in Clearwater, Fla. Maikel Franco drove in the Phillies' other runs with a two-run shot, while Kevin Kiermaier accounted for both of the Rays' runs with one of his own.Brewers 10, Blue Jays 5Travis Shaw went 2-for-4 with a three-run homer as visiting Milwaukee beat Toronto at Olympic Stadium in Montreal. Billy McKinney had two hits for the Blue Jays.Braves 8, Reds 5Atlanta jumped on Cincinnati right-hander Tanner Roark for five runs in 1 2/3 innings en route to a win over Cincinnati back home at SunTrust Park. Eugenio Suarez and Derek Dietrich homered for the Reds.Indians 10, Rangers 1Rookie shortstop Eric Stamets hit a grand slam in the fourth inning as Cleveland cruised past Texas in Arlington. Ronald Guzman hit his fifth homer of the spring for the Rangers.White Sox 6, Diamondbacks 3Daniel Palka's 440-foot homer in the seventh inning proved to be the difference for Chicago in a win over Arizona in Phoenix. John Ryan Murphy and Jake Lamb each went long for the Diamondbacks.Padres 8, Mariners 0Visiting San Diego hit two homers in a six-run first inning and cruised to victory over Seattle at newly renamed T-Mobile Park. Ryon Healy had one of two Mariners hits, with Jake Fraley adding the other in the ninth inning.Dodgers 8, Angels 7Three run-scoring walks and a two-run single from Connor Wong highlighted the Los Angeles Dodgers' five-run seventh inning in a win over the Los Angeles Angels at Anaheim, Calif. Jared Walsh hit a three-run double in the Angels' four-run ninth inning.A's 5, Giants 4Mark Canha's two-run double capped a four-run seventh-inning, and Oakland edged host San Francisco at Oracle Park. Erik Kratz hit a two-run single for the Giants as they replied with four runs in the bottom of the seventh. The difference was the Athletics' run in the first on Jurickson Profar's RBI single.--Field Level Media