THURSDAY PUZZLE — I have said this before, but it is worth repeating: The theme in a crossword puzzle is not always where you might expect to find it. There have been crosswords where the theme has been scattered all over the grid and denoted by asterisks. There have been themes denoted by circled or grayed squares. There have been themes that run from the top to the bottom of the grid. There have been themes that exist outside the grid itself.Occasionally, the theme might bend and twist to the constructor’s will and solvers need to go in search of it when it ends unexpectedly. Figuring out why it’s doing that is just another step in conquering the puzzle.Follow Brian Thomas; he’ll show you where to find the theme, eventually. Just keep your hands where he can see them.1A: The OWLET is, indeed, a “Forest hatchling,” but it is a well-known fact that they have a tendency to dry out. An owlet should be bathed regularly, because you never know when you will need a moist owlet.19A: Very clever. Notice that Champagne in “It’s hardly a Champagne cooler” is capitalized, which makes it the location in France, rather than the bubbly beverage. And, with the French word in the clue, we need a French word as the answer. The three-letter entry is ETE, which is the French word for “summer.” A summer’s day is hardly a cooler.42A: It is honestly beyond me why the entry RUN-ONS has not appeared in The New York Times Crossword since 1977, because it is a perfectly cromulent word that I encounter on the regular as an editor, and often occurs in students’ and even professional writers’ work, which is a shame because they really should know better.45A: I, personally, don’t use my thumbs to TEXT (I use my middle finger, which is not as hostile as it sounds), but many people do. Hence the pun on clumsiness in the clue “Be all thumbs?”2D: It might come as a surprise that the phrase WHAT A TOOL has already appeared in the Gray Lady, but it has. Only once, and a little more than six years ago.44D: In this puzzle, “Bolting down” does not involve securing something to a surface. It refers to throwing food down your throat, and the answer is EATING.Mr. Thomas’s theme appears five times in his grid, if you count that it repeats in the fabulous center entry. You will probably be scratching your head before you get to the revealer at 59A, but as always, that should help clear things up.I tumbled to the theme when I tried to write in ROCK ’EM SOCK ’EM ROBOT, but ran out of squares. It was hard to get past that, because I had the toy as a child and I knew the answer was right. I deleted the entry, turned on the Autocheck function in our game and the minute I got to the first M, it marked me wrong. Huh.So I did what any other solver would do. I filled in ROCK E SOCK E ROBOT, and figured that Mr. Thomas had lost his mind.It turns out that the revealer, which calls on us to STICK ’EM UP, means just that. In each of the theme entries, as soon as you get to an E, the M will be right above it, sticking EM up.Very clever, Mr. Thomas. Maybe I’m the one who has lost my mind.It’s funny looking back at older puzzles and seeing what you’d do different. I distinctly remember deciding what to do with the big northwest and southeast corners and thinking “This is gonna be a Thursday, go for the snazzy long downs!”Nowadays, I think I’d add another block at the T of TADA and use less gluey short entries.I was especially excited to find ROCK ’EM SOCK ’EM ROBOT for a center 15 with its two EMs, and to debut CHIN MUSIC (although I know it as a baseball term).Hope all enjoy!Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here.Your thoughts?