(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a Supreme Court decision on an abortion law, a dispute between Jeff Bezos and the owner of The National Enquirer, and the obituary for Frank Robinson, the first black manager in Major League Baseball.The justices voted 5 to 4 on Thursday to grant a temporary stay on a Louisiana law that opponents said could have left the state with only one authorized abortion provider.Chief Justice John Roberts joined the court’s four-member liberal wing in the majority, highlighting the pivotal position he has assumed after last year’s departure of Justice Anthony Kennedy. Justice Kennedy was often the swing vote in closely divided cases.The details: The Louisiana law requires doctors who perform abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals. A federal court judge struck down the law in 2017, saying it created an undue burden on women’s constitutional right to abortion. That decision was later reversed.What’s next: The court’s action on Thursday did not end the case, and the justices are likely to hear a challenge to the law on the merits in its next term, which starts in October. The court struck down a similar law in Texas in 2016.Related: Lawmakers in several states have recently been working on legislation that either protects abortion or makes it illegal, in the event that a conservative-leaning Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling that made abortion legal nationwide.Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the world’s richest man, said on Thursday that the owner of The National Enquirer had tried “extortion and blackmail” to stop him investigating how material exposing his extramarital affair was leaked to the tabloid.In an online post, Mr. Bezos accused American Media Inc. of threatening to publish explicit photos, including a “below the belt selfie,” if he didn’t affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not politically motivated. Mr. Bezos mentioned his ownership of The Washington Post. American Media’s owner, David Pecker, is a friend of President Trump, who has criticized The Post.Catch up: Mr. Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie, announced last month that they would be getting a divorce, a day before the tabloid published an 11-page story about his affair with Lauren Sanchez, a TV personality.Excerpts: “If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” Mr. Bezos wrote.The State Senate’s top Republican faced questions on Thursday about racist photographs and slurs in a college yearbook that he helped oversee, adding a bipartisan angle to the nearly weeklong crisis over the conduct of the state’s top elected officials.The Republican lawmaker, Thomas Norment, pointed out that he did not take or appear in any of the images of students in blackface in the 1968 yearbook. Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, both Democrats, have admitted wearing blackface in the 1980s.Separately, several prominent Democrats called for an investigation into a woman’s accusation that Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax had sexually assaulted her in 2004.Go deeper: The controversy has reinforced that blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions that date to the 1830s, has never gone away.The Daily: On today’s episode, we discuss how the situation in Virginia is testing Democrats’ policy of zero tolerance for misconduct by members of their party.Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, spoke about killing Jamal Khashoggi long before he was strangled and dismembered by Saudi agents in October, in a conversation intercepted by U.S. intelligence agencies.Prince Mohammed told an aide in September 2017 that he would go after Mr. Khashoggi “with a bullet” if the columnist for The Washington Post didn’t return to the kingdom and end his criticism of the Saudi government.Why it matters: The Saudi government has denied that Prince Mohammed, the de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia, played any role in the killing. He has also been defended by President Trump.The first surfing contest to offer equal cash prizes for men and women took place in November at a spot called Jaws, off the Hawaiian island of Maui, where in the right conditions the waves can run 40 or 50 feet, or higher.This is the story of how women broke into big-wave surfing, one of the most dangerous sports in the world, and their battles to win access to the top echelon of competition.Deadly fire in Brazil: At least 10 people were killed today in a fire at a dormitory for young players at a training center for a professional soccer team in Rio de Janeiro, firefighters and club officials said.“Green New Deal”: House Democrats on Thursday introduced a sweeping resolution calling for the U.S. to eliminate additional carbon emissions by 2030. But Speaker Nancy Pelosi has no plans to bring it to a vote in its current form.Bank merger: A $28 billion deal between BB&T and SunTrust would, if approved, be the industry’s biggest merger in a decade, creating the sixth-largest bank in the U.S.Justice Dept. leader to testify: The acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, is scheduled to appear before a House panel today to discuss the special counsel’s Russia investigation after receiving an assurance that he would not be subpoenaed.Strains in Europe: France recalled its ambassador from Rome after an Italian official met with a leader of the “Yellow Vest” protests against the French government.Snapshot: Above, a dog backstage at the 16th annual New York Pet Fashion Show on Thursday.In memoriam: Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame outfielder, became the first black manager in Major League Baseball, in 1975. He died on Thursday at 83.John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, served in Congress for a record 59 years. He died on Thursday at 92.Grammys on Sunday: The musical awards show has made a series of changes in the past year to address a lack of diversity. But there is no guarantee that new nominees will win — or that big names will show up.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: President Trump has said that Democrats’ investigations are “presidential harassment.” “Yes, presidential harassment,” Stephen Colbert said. “It’s like sexual harassment, only Republicans take it seriously.”What we’re reading: This essay, published by the Modern War Institute at West Point. Lauren Katzenberg, our At War editor, says, “An Army captain, Micah Ables, makes the case for why servicewomen are needed in combat units in a thoughtful rebuttal to a Wall Street Journal op-ed that argued against Obama-era gender integration policies.”Cook: Give cauliflower the Buffalo wing treatment.Watch: “If Beale Street Could Talk” and then see how it shows a New York City that no longer exists.See: In the Coachella Valley, visit the Desert X exhibition, which has various installations, including a drive-in movie theater screening only one film.Read: Un-su Kim’s “The Plotters,” about a Korean assassin, is one of nine new books we recommend this week.Smarter Living: When buying off-season produce, be skeptical of anything that’s perishable but super fresh. While transportation accounts for only about 6 percent of the world’s food-related greenhouse gas emissions, not all modes of travel are equal. Anything moved by air, like fresh blackberries or asparagus from South America, is going to create a lot of carbon.Also, you can reject an online suitor without ghosting. Just assert that you’re not interested.On Saturday, the Boeing 747, perhaps the world’s most recognizable jet, celebrates the 50th anniversary of its first flight. Commercial service started within a year.While the jumbo jets are slowly being retired by many airlines in favor of more fuel-efficient planes, the 747 still has at least a few years left in regular passenger service with many international carriers.Nowadays, cost-conscious airlines try to cram as many passengers into their planes as they can, but competition was different in the heyday of the 747. The goal then was to give passengers space and luxury. American Airlines even put a piano bar in coach.Pilots love to fly “the Queen of the Skies,” and crews feel a special connection to it, according to Joe Kannapell, a retired 747 captain (who happens to be the briefings editor’s brother).“There’s an intimacy and a fraternity aspect that no other fleet ever had,” he said.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the leadership crisis in Virginia.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Nickname for mom’s sister (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Last year, The Times added 120 newsroom employees, bringing its total number of journalists to 1,600, the largest count in its history.