Alex Cifuentes Villa was born with the drug trade in his blood.As the youngest member of a storied narco dynasty, Mr. Cifuentes was already helping his father dry and pack cocaine at age 10. A few years later, he befriended a top aide to the drug lord Pablo Escobar who had moved into his building in Medellín, Colombia. He started going bowling with the aide’s bodyguards.But about a decade ago, Mr. Cifuentes, then in his 40s, was in dire straits, recovering from pancreatic surgery and saddled with a large debt from his recently murdered older brother. Needing money quickly, he testified this week, he was hired as a personal assistant to an old business associate: Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican kingpin known as El Chapo.Mr. Cifuentes worked with Mr. Guzmán for the next six years — arranging his schedule, managing his drug deals, buying his weapons, disposing of his enemies and even taking part in his vanity movie project. But he has spent the last four days betraying the defendant as a witness for the prosecution at his drug trial in New York.While his detailed testimony about Mr. Guzmán’s Sinaloa cartel was damaging for his former boss’s defense, it was his revelation on Tuesday under cross-examination that will arguably be most remembered: Mr. Cifuentes testified that just before Mexico’s 2012 presidential election, Mr. Guzmán gave Enrique Peña Nieto, who ultimately won the contest, a $100 million bribe.The kingpin’s trial, in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, has seen its share of flamboyant figures in the last nine weeks — from Mr. Guzmán’s chief cocaine supplier, who altered his entire face with plastic surgery, to the 20-something I.T. expert who built El Chapo an encrypted cellphone system and then worked with the F.B.I. to hack it. But even in this parade of vivid characters, Mr. Cifuentes has stood out.Who else could describe for jurors, as he did Wednesday, how he once planned to “fuse” cocaine into “plastic cubes” and ship it to Canada with the help of twin brothers in the Mafia? Mr. Cifuentes also said he lied about his true occupation on an application for Mexican citizenship, saying he sold “submersible plants.”Federal prosecutors have said in court filings that Mr. Cifuentes has an “unorthodox” interest in the occult (which, they noted, he picked up from watching the Discovery Channel) and on several occasions has gone to see a witch doctor. He said he once took a trip to Ecuador to buy cocaine for Mr. Guzmán, filling a cooler with $1 million and traveling the high seas in a six-person boat.Mr. Cifuentes first grew close to Mr. Guzmán in late 2007 when he went to live with the drug lord (and his entourage of secretaries, maids and bodyguards) in a series of secret hide-outs in the Sierra Madre mountains. Before he arrived, Mr. Cifuentes said, Mr. Guzmán was living in a rustic hut with plastic folding chairs and makeshift wooden furniture. It was only after he showed up, he claimed, that Mr. Guzmán acquired modern amenities like a plasma-screen television.In the next six years, Mr. Cifuentes was involved in nearly every aspect of Mr. Guzmán’s business. His own personal assistant, Andrea Velez Fernandez, once tried to help the kingpin bribe an army general whom she was supplying with “female friends” from a modeling firm she ran. When Mr. Guzmán later wanted Ms. Velez dead, Mr. Cifuentes said he took the contract, sending his wife to Canada to hire a local group of Hell’s Angels for the hit.His ties to Mr. Guzmán ended shortly after Mr. Cifuentes was arrested by Mexican authorities in late 2013; he was apprehended at a modest ranch in the outskirts of Culiacán that was protected by the kingpin’s personal bodyguards, a team known as the Anthrax Group. Within a year, he testified, his brother Jorge, who was already in custody in the United States, persuaded him to cooperate with the prosecutors on Mr. Guzmán’s case.The Cifuentes family had not always gotten along so well. On Wednesday, Mr. Cifuentes told jurors that he had once asked his nephew to kill his niece’s boyfriend after he suspected the man of being an informant. Some years later, after the nephew tried to kidnap his grandmother — Mr. Cifuentes’s mother — he tried to have the nephew murdered, too.When Mr. Cifuentes first appeared on the witness stand on Thursday, he nodded at Mr. Guzmán in a solemn way that seemed to say, “This is how it ends, old friend.” Returning the gesture, Mr. Guzmán nodded back.And so began a four-day litany of stories, which Mr. Cifuentes told with his chin held high — not so much out of arrogance, it seemed, but to better see through his two transplanted corneas. His accounts touched on serious subjects, like Mr. Guzmán’s alleged bribe to Mr. Peña Nieto, but also on frivolous ones, including how another one of the kingpin’s top lieutenants once gave members of his inner circle custom-made “Cartel de Sinaloa” baseball caps.In the end, Mr. Cifuentes said on Tuesday, he had enjoyed himself during his 40-year career, making money, losing money, spending it on cars and watches for his girlfriends.“A good life,” he offered with a shrug.