Yonder Alonso made an All-Star team a couple of years ago. Jon Jay once earned a World Series ring. They are two of the newest Chicago White Sox, and fairness demands that they be recognized as solid major league baseball players.But there are a lot of solid players the White Sox could have acquired this off-season. Alonso just happens to be the brother-in-law of Manny Machado, the star free-agent shortstop who is married to Alonso’s sister. Jay just happens to be one of Machado’s best friends.“It’s certainly a positive,” White Sox General Manager Rick Hahn said in a conference call on Thursday. “But it’s by no means a reason to make a move to acquire either player.”True enough. The White Sox have endured six losing seasons in a row, their longest stretch of futility since 1944 to 1950. Trading a prospect to Cleveland for Alonso and signing Jay for one year at $4 million should help a needy roster.But Machado, a 26-year-old shortstop who has already made four All-Star teams, would spark the White Sox rebuild in a much bigger way. As recruiting tools go, adding two of his best buddies is a low-risk — if quite transparent — innovation worth taking.“We have a great friendship, and Yonder is his brother-in-law,” Jay said. “But Manny’s going to do what’s best for his family. That’s going to be up to them privately. I haven’t been involved with any of that; those are their matters and we’d like to see how everything shakes out. Obviously, we’d love to have a Manny Machado on the team. The guy’s unbelievable.”Machado ended last season in the World Series with the Los Angeles Dodgers, flailing in vain at Chris Sale’s slider as the Red Sox clinched their title. Sale once unleashed those sliders for the White Sox, who traded him to Boston in December 2016, signaling a roster teardown that included the trades of Adam Eaton, Jose Quintana, David Robertson and Todd Frazier.Predictably, the White Sox lost 92 games in 2017 and 100 last season. A prospect they acquired for Eaton, Lucas Giolito, had the highest earned run average among major league qualifiers last season, at 6.13. Second baseman Yoan Moncada, acquired for Sale, led the majors in strikeouts, with 217. Pitcher Michael Kopech, also acquired for Sale, had Tommy John surgery.“Given where our prospects are, what our likelihood is to win a championship in 2019, arguably it’s a little premature to be adding significant free agents at this time — we get that,” Hahn said.But, he added, “with regards to the top of this free agent market, you can’t control when these guys become free agents.“We went into this with the thought of being opportunistic, that if things were able to line up in a way that we were able to further cement this rebuild and put ourselves in a stronger position for the long term, we were going to try to do everything in our power to advance that opportunity.”The richest offer usually wins in free agency, of course, and the backdrop of Machado’s saga is that of Bryce Harper, the other elite player on the market. Their powerful agents — Dan Lozano for Machado and Scott Boras for Harper — naturally want to emerge from the winter with the largest haul.The Yankees entertained Machado in New York last month, but they seem bound for the postseason with or without him and reached a two-year, $24 million contract agreement (pending a physical) with another infielder, D.J. LeMahieu, on Friday.The Phillies, who reportedly will meet with Harper this weekend, lurk in both discussions. Their owner, John Middleton, has vowed to spend aggressively, and they are eager to end their own streak of six consecutive losing seasons.Machado is familiar with the Phillies executives Andy MacPhail and Matt Klentak, who worked for the Baltimore Orioles in Machado’s early years there, and MASN reported on Thursday that the Phillies have hired the former Orioles coach Bobby Dickerson as their infield coach. But Machado’s ties to Alonso and Jay are much stronger. In February 2017, the players collaborated on a photo essay for The Players’ Tribune called “The Miami Baseball Brotherhood,” detailing their hometown workouts and their kinship.“As a kid coming up, I’d see Jon and Yonder out there making their mark, and it gave me something to shoot for,” Machado wrote then. “They set the example. I looked up to those guys.”Jay wrote that “I’ve known Yonder since he was 10. And we’ve both known Manny since he was a young kid coming up. We’re from the same neighborhoods, the same culture, so it’s just natural for us to stick together.”Said Alonso: “We all play on different teams now, but everyone knows we have a special bond. When one of these guys comes to town, my teammates will be like, ‘Look out … the Miami crew is here.’ We’ll pick each other up at the airport! Everybody just knows how it is. Miami guys stick together.”They have the chance to stick together again. The White Sox chose to trade for Alonso. Jay chose to join him in Chicago. Now, the choice is Machado’s.