WASHINGTON — President Trump hosted Jair Bolsonaro, the Brazilian president, at the White House on Tuesday, and it was something like looking in the mirror.Like other authoritarian leaders Mr. Trump has embraced since taking office, Mr. Bolsonaro is an echo of the American president: a brash nationalist whose populist appeal comes partly from his use of Twitter and his history of making crude statements about women, gay people and indigenous groups.“They say he’s the Donald Trump of South America,” Mr. Trump marveled during a speech to the Farm Bureau in January, noting that Mr. Bolsonaro had been called the “Trump of the tropics” since taking office this year. “Do you believe that? And he’s happy with that. If he wasn’t, I wouldn’t like the country so much. But I like him.”At a news conference after the two men held a luncheon meeting, Mr. Trump gushed that “I think Brazil’s relationship with the United States, because of our friendship, is probably better than it’s ever been by far.”“Our trade with Brazil will go substantially up,” Mr. Trump predicted earlier in the afternoon, “and that’s one of the things Brazil would like to see.”United States officials said this week that Mr. Trump appreciated the way Mr. Bolsonaro powered his way to victory in Brazil’s election by being unabashedly pro-American and declaring repeatedly that he wanted to have a close relationship with Mr. Trump.In part because of the stylistic similarities between the two leaders, White House officials expressed optimism that Brazil and the United States — two of the largest economies in the Western Hemisphere — would be able to work through disagreements and forge a closer bond on trade and regional issues in South America, including confronting the political crisis in Venezuela.But the warmth displayed between the two leaders at the White House also underscores how Mr. Trump has upended the usual foreign policy traditions established over decades by his predecessors.Since taking office, Mr. Trump has repeatedly confronted and challenged the United States’ closest democratic allies, including the leaders of Canada, Germany and France, while speaking with glowing admiration about some of the globe’s most brutal dictators: Kim Jong-un of North Korea, Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Xi Jinping of China, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey and Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young, Andy Mills and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Paige Cowett and Lisa TobinJair Bolsonaro spent most of his career on the political fringe, until his message started to resonate with a country reeling from economic hardship and a widespread corruption scandal.michael barbaroFrom the New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today —archived recording (donald trump)Today, I’m very thrilled to welcome President Bolsonaro of Brazil for his first visit to the White House.michael barbaroOn Tuesday, President Trump held a joint news conference with the newly elected president of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro.archived recording (donald trump)President Bolsonaro, I want to congratulate you again on your tremendous election victory. Last October, it was an incredible feat and, really, a truly incredible challenge. And the end result was something the whole world was talking about.michael barbaroThe campaign he ran and his brash style have earned Bolsonaro the nickname the “Trump of the tropics,” a comparison that Trump has embraced and said he is honored by.archived recording (donald trump)I also know that we’re going to have a fantastic working relationship. We have many views that are similar.michael barbaroMy colleague, Ernesto Londoño, on the story of Bolsonaro. It’s Wednesday, March 20. So who is Bolsonaro, and how did he enter Brazilian politics?ernesto londoñoBolsonaro is a former army captain. He was a paratrooper who had a pretty short and fairly turbulent stint in the military. He actually got kicked out. But after leaving the military in not the best of terms, he was very successful at sliding into a political career, initially as a city council member in his native Rio de Janeiro. And then very soon, he found his way to the capital, Brasília, as a congressman.archived recordingThe dictatorship was at its most harsh in the late ‘60s and early ‘70s.ernesto londoñoAnd the country was emerging from a pretty traumatic period.archived recordingStudent demonstrations in 1968, calling for the restoration of democratic rights, prompted a strong response from the military.ernesto londoñoIt was definitely an era of repression, of terror, for many groups that were at odds with the military government, and a pretty widespread censorship and curtailment of civil rights.archived recordingMany of those arrested were to face torture.ernesto londoñoBut in ‘88, lawmakers passed a very progressive Constitution.archived recordingIt’s 29 years since Brazil last held free presidential elections.ernesto londoñoIf there is one point where it became starkly clear that Brazil had reached cruising altitude as a democracy, it would’ve been the election of Luiz Inácio da Silva, commonly known as Lula, in 2002. Lula was a former shoeshiner, son of a single mother, raised poor, rose to prominence as a union leader, started building a political movement during the era of military rule and was briefly jailed as a political prisoner. And when he is sworn in 2003 —archived recording[PORTUGUESE SPEECH]ernesto londoño— the region really sort of took a look at Brazil and said, wow, this country has really turned a corner. If a man like Lula can get elected in Brazil, Brazil has really matured as a democracy.michael barbaroAnd what role does Bolsonaro play in the midst of this pretty dramatic shift in Brazil?ernesto londoñoBolsonaro was seen as kind of a loud and obnoxious lawmaker, who would just get into these shouting matches in Congress, would deliver these fiery speeches.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoHe became infamous for saying things that were very offensive about women.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAbout blacks.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAbout gays.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoHe made the news, for instance, when he got into a shouting match with a female lawmaker.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd told her that she was too ugly to rape.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd the most startling thing, and it was the theme he went back and back to, was his praise for the era of military rule.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoThat Brazil needed strong men at the helm and that this experiment with democracy was not taking the country in the right direction.michael barbaroSo just as kind of modern democratic Brazil is coming into form, it sounds like Bolsonaro is entering politics, but is pushing in the other direction, for less democracy, more authoritarianism.ernesto londoñoAbsolutely. He essentially made the case, only the military can run this large, unwieldy country effectively. And we’re wasting our time thinking that this experiment with democracy is going to take us anywhere productive.michael barbaroAnd what was the response to moments like that?ernesto londoñoLargely speaking, people started saying, well, that’s just Bolsonaro being Bolsonaro. He made headlines. He was admonished. He was criticized. But he was not somebody who was really taken seriously. He was not somebody who was center stage when big deals were being negotiated. For most of his career, he was a little bit of a sideshow. And at the same time —archived recordingIn Brazil, Petrobras recently made what could be the world’s biggest oil discovery since the 1970s.ernesto londoñoLula had a remarkably successful first term as president, and Brazilians started seeing some pretty sweeping changes. Brazil, like much of the region, was enjoying a commodities boom.archived recordingThe discovery could mean that Brazil will become one of the world’s leading oil exporters.ernesto londoñoThere were some pretty groundbreaking policies that paved the way for people from poor families, people from rural communities, for the first time to go to university.archived recordingIn just seven years, almost 30 million Brazilians have joined the ranks of the middle class, some helped by government handouts, others through improved education, which leads to higher wages.ernesto londoñoThere was a sense that inequality was diminishing in a country where it’s long been really hard to move up the ladder. And Brazil started aspiring to great things. Brazil started making alliances with other large economies, like Russia and China and South Africa, and kind of projecting itself on the world stage as a rising power. I think this all became crystal clear, just kind of a sense of optimism and the sense that Brazil seemed unstoppable, when —archived recordingI have the honor to announce that the Games of the 31st Olympiad are awarded to the city of Rio de Janeiro. [CROWD CHEERS]ernesto londoñoIn 2009, Brazil beat the odds and won the rights to host the 2016 Olympic Games. And, you know, looking back now at how optimistic, you know, the scenes of people partying on the beach in Copacabana, just celebrating this major triumph for Brazil, it seems impossible to think now that the seeds of what would happen next had already been planted. And the reality was that underneath this triumphant country that seemed to be rising into a bright new era, underneath all that, there was a lot of rot. And it would take a few years for people here to discover just how much.[music]michael barbaroSo, Ernesto, how did this rot that you describe, this ugliness beneath the surface, eventually get exposed?ernesto londoñoWell, things in Brazil started taking a definite turn for the worse in 2014. Two major things happened. On the one hand, the economy, which had been on a slide, entered into recession. On the other hand, a team of investigators stumbled into a major scandal while they were looking at some funny financial transactions, initially at a gas station.archived recording 1In the past week, Brazilians have had wall-to-wall coverage of a political scandal threatening to bring down the country’s government. It first came to light when Brazilian police uncovered a money laundering operation at a car wash.archived recording 2It’s known as Operation Car Wash.ernesto londoñoThat quickly reached very, very deeply into very powerful politicians and the top companies in Brazil.archived recording 1The investigation centers on a billion-dollar corruption scandal at Brazil’s mammoth oil corporation, Petrobras.archived recording 2Petrobras is one of Brazil’s biggest companies. It’s alleged senior officials took almost $700 million in bribes when awarding construction contracts. Many that may have taken bribes are linked to the government.ernesto londoñoWe’re talking about massive companies that had entire departments with the task of paying bribes to politicians.archived recording 1The speaker of Brazil’s lower house of Congress has been charged over alleged involvement in a corruption scandal at the state-run —archived recording 2News breaking in the last hour that the former president of Brazil is being detained by police after a raid on his home and office —ernesto londoñoIt soon became apparent to Brazilians that corruption had been institutionalized.archived recordingFive former Brazilian presidents, nearly one out of three cabinet ministers, and almost one out of three senators have been indicted or investigated.michael barbaroAnd what was the reaction in the general Brazilian public once all this corruption comes to light?ernesto londoñoThere was outrage.archived recording[CHANTING]ernesto londoñoAs these scandals started engulfing some of the pillars of the economy here, some of the biggest companies in the country, unemployment goes up, people’s purchasing power goes down, and state governments start going bankrupt.archived recording[CHANTING]ernesto londoñoIn some places, this means the police aren’t getting paid. And people start seeing a surge of violence.archived recordingWith more than 50,000 violent deaths every year, Brazil has one of the world’s highest homicide rates.ernesto londoñoThey go from a period of feeling optimistic and almost euphoric about the future to a period of despair and anguish.michael barbaroAnd where is Bolsonaro in all of this?ernesto londoñoBolsonaro is one of the rarer veteran lawmakers who has not really been splattered by these corruption investigations. And at this time, he starts getting a fair amount of traction. All of a sudden, this guy who had kind of been a fringe character comes more into sync with how Brazilians were feeling about their lot in life.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAround 2016, he starts telling people that he wants to take a shot at the presidency.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd the way he spread his message was unique in the history of Brazilian presidential races. He was campaigning largely by sitting in front of a phone, which was often shaky.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd just broadcasting videos live on Facebook, on Instagram.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoWhere he was speaking to people as though they were long-lost friends.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoIt was completely unscripted, oftentimes stream-of-consciousness. He would jump from one subject to another.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoAnd I think people saw that as pretty refreshing. People were so disgusted with politics as usual in the political establishment that they saw in this guy, who had been in the fringes for so long, somebody who could radically reinvent the system.archived recording[CHANTING]michael barbaroAnd does he have the stature at this moment to do that?ernesto londoñoWhen the very first rumblings of a Bolsonaro presidential bid start coming up, people laughed it off. The conventional wisdom was he’s too extreme. He’s too outside of the norm. But despite the skepticism, by the end of 2017, it became pretty clear that Bolsonaro’s message had strong appeal across the country.archived recording[CHANTING]michael barbaroAnd what exactly is he promising on the campaign trail that the Brazilian people are finding so compelling?ernesto londoñoOn corruption, he was very clear in stating that he was going have no patience for business as usual. And that under his tenure —archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoPeople who were corrupt had tons to fear. But I think the main promise he made to his supporters was that he was going to take extraordinary measures to restore security. And we’re talking about pretty draconian things. Bolsonaro, for example, once said, “A good criminal is a dead criminal.”archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoHe made it clear he was essentially going to give the police free rein to shoot suspected criminals on the spot.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoThe third thing he did, which was unusual, was surround himself with military leaders and make them kind of a core base of support. The military had been largely out of sight in politics in Brazil for the past three decades. So this was a pretty bold move, but actually one that captured people’s imagination as they longed for a system that was more orderly and more secure.michael barbaroSo this cranky, often outrageous character is starting to connect with people.ernesto londoñoAbsolutely.archived recording[CHANTING]ernesto londoñoHowever, I think it’s important to note that there were a couple of pretty crucial turning points that turbocharged his presidential bid.archived recordingBrazil’s former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, is to stand trial for allegedly accepting over $1 million in bribes.ernesto londoñoEarly last year, former president Lula, who had been the front-runner according to opinion polls, and who was trying to make a bid for a third term in the presidential palace, got jailed. And after he gets jailed on corruption and money laundering charges, he essentially becomes disqualified, and his party is in disarray. And then you fast forward a few months, and in September of last year, there’s a very dramatic moment when, on the campaign trail, Bolsonaro is marching through the streets of a small town, surrounded by supporters. And a man lunges toward him with a big kitchen knife and stabs him in the stomach.archived recording[SIRENS] Jair Bolsonaro has been left in a serious but stable condition in hospital, this after being stabbed while drumming up support ahead of next month’s vote. Hospital officials say it could take two months for him to recover.ernesto londoñoHe was essentially knocked off the campaign trail for the remainder of the race. He was in a hospital bed, and then he was in his apartment, and communicating virtually only through social media.archived recording (jair bolsonaro)(SPEAKING PORTUGUESE)ernesto londoñoPeople, I think, saw in this moment the kind of violence that he was railing against in a really crystallized form. This incident that could have easily ended his life ended up propelling his bid.archived recording[CHANTING] The breaking news is the far-right candidate Jair Bolsonaro has won Brazil’s presidential race.ernesto londoñoAnd after this happens, in October, he has a decisive victory.michael barbaroAnd what is the reaction across Brazil to this victory?ernesto londoñoBrazil emerges from the election pretty polarized. Somebody who had been a very, very long shot for the presidency was able to not just win, but win decisively. However, you also have many communities in the country that feel extraordinarily unsafe in this new Brazil and that worry that the country under Bolsonaro’s watch could well transition into a new era of authoritarian rule.michael barbaroI wonder what Bolsonaro’s election means for Brazil, which, as you told us earlier, is just 30 years from having been a military dictatorship and turned to democracy and seems to have had a pretty rocky journey.ernesto londoñoI think it illustrates that many people, not just in Brazil but across Latin America, have become very cynical about democracy, at least the version of democracy they were seeing. Many Brazilians felt that they were being governed by thieves, who just kept getting elected by playing the old political playbook. And I think, in the specific case of Bolsonaro, who comes with a history of having championed authoritarian rule, of wanting to govern very closely with senior military leaders, the promise of order, even if it came at the price of a rollback of civil liberties and of democracy, it was a price many Brazilians were perfectly willing to pay.michael barbaroSo to change this system that seems to not be working, it feels like Brazilians want to shock the system and perhaps test its limits, which sounds a little bit like what’s going on in the United States.ernesto londoñoAbsolutely. When I talked to people on the campaign trail, you know, I was really startled by the level of anguish that they expressed and their willingness to take big risks on a leader who was untested and who comes with all these question marks.michael barbaroErnesto, thank you very much.ernesto londoñoThank you.michael barbaroJust weeks after his swearing in, when Bolsonaro vowed to, quote, “rid Brazil of corruption,” he faced charges that his own administration was engaging in more of the same. Brazilian prosecutors are investigating the mysterious movement of more than $300,000 in and out of bank accounts controlled by the driver of Bolsonaro’s oldest son, a state lawmaker, and why some of those payments went to Bolsonaro’s wife. At the same time, Bolsonaro has appointed three government ministers who were previously implicated in investigations of corruption.Mr. Bolsonaro has long been an apologist for the military dictatorship that ruled Brazil for more than two decades, but he was elected by an ample margin and Brazil is now very much a democracy.A former army captain who served for decades in the Brazilian congress, Mr. Bolsonaro vaulted onto the international scene by winning his country’s elections last year. He made his first international appearance as president when he attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January.At the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Bolsonaro pledged that the United States and Brazil would “stand side by side in their efforts to ensure liberties and respect to traditional family lifestyles, respect to God our creator against the gender ideology or the politically correct attitudes, and against fake news.”A few minutes later, Mr. Trump said he was “very proud to hear the president use the term ‘fake news.’”In an interview on Fox News on Monday night, Mr. Bolsonaro lashed out at the news media — much the way Mr. Trump often does — for what he said were inaccurate representations of his past statements about race and women, including having said at one point that “yes, I am homophobic — and very proud of it.”“If it were all that, I would not at all have been elected president,” Mr. Bolsonaro told Shannon Bream of Fox. “So there’s a great deal of fake news certainly around — the Brazilian population has after all learned how to use social media. And they no longer trust or believe the Brazilian mainstream media, which is virtually dominated by the left wing.”Mr. Bolsonaro insisted that “I have nothing against homosexuals or women — I’m not a xenophobe.”With Mr. Bolsonaro by his side at the White House, Mr. Trump lashed out at social media companies like Twitter and Facebook, accusing them of being “collusive” with his critics and discriminating against conservatives and Republicans. Reacting to a lawsuit filed against social media companies by Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican and one of his supporters, Mr. Trump hinted that he was prepared to take action against what he called “unfair” practices by the companies.“Well, we have to do something, I tell you,” Mr. Trump said.“If they’re in a certain group, there’s discrimination and big discrimination,” he said. “I see it absolutely on Twitter and Facebook.” Mr. Trump also criticized television networks. “The incredible thing is that we can win an election and we have such a stacked deck, and that includes networks.”Mr. Trump and Mr. Bolsonaro said they discussed the future of Venezuela, and Mr. Trump praised his counterpart for Brazil’s humanitarian aid to Venezuela and support for Juan Guaidó, the self-declared interim president.Responding to a question about why sanctions by the United States have so far failed to force Nicolás Maduro, the Venezuela’s socialist leader, to surrender his grip on the presidency, Mr. Trump said that the United States had still not imposed the toughest sanctions possible.“We really haven’t done the really tough sanctions yet,” Mr. Trump said. “We can do the tough sanctions, and all options are open. We can go a lot tougher if we need to do that.”Earlier in the day, the Treasury Department imposed a new round of sanctions against Minerven, Venezuela’s state-owned gold-mining company and its president, Adrian Antonio Perdomo Mata, as part of its effort to increase pressure to the Maduro government. It accused Minerven of propping up Mr. Maduro through “illicit gold operations,” including paying independent miners for gold with “nearly worthless bolívars” to sustain the military.“The illegitimate Maduro regime is pillaging the wealth of Venezuela while imperiling indigenous people by encroaching on protected areas and causing deforestation and habitat loss,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said.Appearing with Mr. Bolsonaro in the Oval Office before their meeting, Mr. Trump said that he knew “exactly” what he wanted to happen in Venezuela, but he declined to say what that was. He said that all options were on the table, including the use of the military.Asked about the possibility of joining the United States in a potential military action against Venezuela, Mr. Bolsonaro declined to answer, saying that “these reserved issues, which may be discussed, if they have not yet, will not become public.”Mr. Bolsonaro’s visit to Washington received mixed reviews at home, where many Brazilians were outraged to hear him praise the Trump administration’s plan to build a wall along the Mexican border and say a majority of immigrants who head to the United States do not have “good intentions.”The satire website Sensacionalista mocked Mr. Bolsonaro for concessions announced during the trip: waiving the visa requirement for United States citizens visiting Brazil and agreeing to allow companies from the United States to launch commercial satellites from a base near the Equator.“In exchange for the use of our base and the visa exemption for Americans, the president will come home with a Trump baseball cap,” the article said.“It’s actually an incredible location when you study it, and when you see it,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday, referring to the agreement Mr. Bolsonaro had announced allowing United States companies to launch satellites from a base in Alcantara, along the north coast of Brazil. “We won’t go into it now, but because of the location, tremendous amounts of money would be saved. To put it very simply, the flights are a lot shorter.”Brazil experts in the United States said the visit had gone well and would most likely establish a foundation for closer cooperation between the two largest economies in the Americas.“We can point to the removal of visa restrictions by Brazil on U.S. citizens as a signal that Brazil is working to reduce barriers to engagement,” said Roberta Braga, an associate director at the Atlantic Council’s Adrienne Arsht Latin America Center.