Every week, we ask at least a few questions in our writing prompts that invite students to write about their personal experiences, like whether they love to dance, what foods they think represent their hometowns, and how they feel about gym class. We love reading the responses to these questions because every one is as different as the teenager who wrote it.This week comments on two such prompts — “What Is the Most Memorable Thing You Have Ever Lost or Found?” and “Your Food Obsession” — really stood out to us.What made these comments pop? For one, the writing was full of descriptive words, sensory details and colorful language that made us feel like we were there. We also enjoyed how many students turned their experiences into stories, complete with suspense, action and a lesson learned. And, we can never resist those comments that make us feel something, whether it’s laughter, fear, heartbreak, joy or secondhand embarrassment.Read on to see for yourself what students wrote, as well as their opinions on our most popular prompt of the week about whether college athletes should get paid.Thank you to the new classes who joined us from all over the world: Orange, Calif.; San Jose, Calif.; Southern Delaware School of the Arts; St. Elizabeth Elementary School; Switzerland; Towanda, Penn.; Western Washington; and Saigon South International School in Vietnam.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted.__________A red crayon, smashed into the pavement. A child’s glove, perfectly framed by sidewalk cracks. Spilled French fries. A key on a chain. These are some of the items photographed by Sara Barrett on the streets of New York City for her piece, “A Mitten, a Key, a Unicorn: Did You Drop Something?” Inspired by her photographs, we asked students about the precious and memorable items they have lost and found.They told us about jewelry, toys, money, pets and valuables. We loved reading about the strange and the sentimental alike, but what we like most about these responses is that each one is like a short story about finding the beauty, tragedy and mystery in ordinary moments.The most interesting — and weirdest — things we’ve foundI can’t really remember what I was doing, but I think I was digging the garden to plant some saplings. But while I was digging, I found a rock with a sharp edge. I was curious about it so I held on to it and after class, I went to the bathroom and washed away the dirt on it. There, I noticed that it was black and shiny.At first I didn’t know what it was, but I thought it was obsidian. I wasn’t sure, so I took it to my science teacher and asked what it was. And I was right! It was obsidian. It was shiny, and had very cool sharp edges. I was fascinated!— John B, SSIS, HCMC, VietnamOne day I was taking boxes of old stuff outside because my family was have a garage sale. As you know garage sales are boring and last hours so my I thought I would pass the time looking through boxes. As I did I found this green stuffed bunny, at first I thought nothing of it but then it was like I was in the back of the head by my old memories. I was suddenly taken to back to when I was a little girl and I was carrying around that exact bunny. I was reminded or very mundane memories which were forgotten over time. But it was crazy how one look at the stuffed bunny and I was shot back into my own past like looking through a picture book that has been put away on the shelf for many years. I not only found the bunny, but the bunny helped me find my memories as well. I guess you could say I found two things that day.— Wiio Meinheit, Hoggard High school, NCHurricane Florence left my hometowns beach in turmoil, our community gathered to begin clean up. A group of my friends and I made our way down the beach, dragging large pieces of debris to the streets, through what was left of the dunes. During this process, I have lifted up a large section of shingles and roof scraps. A string of coconuts, hid underneath. As if they were just picked off the tree, untouched. It was such a sight because being in North Carolina, fresh coconuts are not normally seen in our produce section. It is so interesting how this force of nature brought these to my beach. My friends and I came to the conclusion that they most likely washed ashore from Puerto Rico or even Bermuda. Just think how much these coconuts have been through is astonishing.— Lily Skipper, Hoggard High, Wilmington NCThe most memorable thing I ever found was a small plastic kitten. I was in seventh grade when I found it outside the school along side my friend. We named the cat Beyonce Diamond and it was the subject of our laughter for months. My friend moved away but thinking about her and that cat never fail to bring a smile to my face.— Abigail Billings, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCI went to New York a lot when I was younger, that’s where my family’s from. New York is the capital of, “how could someone lose …” I remember walking on 5th avenue, a wealthy, fancy strip in New York, with my little brother when we came across a single shoe, still laced and 20 minuets later, finding a pair of pants, still buttoned and zipped. I vividly remember this because for the rest of the day, my brother and I were looking for a man with one shoe and no pants.— Molly Christensen, Hoggard High SchoolI was walking my dog on this beautiful day, and I noticed from afar this green piece of paper. As I got closer to this piece of paper; I noticed that it wasn’t any piece of paper. It was a bright green 50 dollar bill. Anyone could have run into this 50 dollar bill, but no it was my lucky day … Before I bent over to pick up the money, I thought about how this bill wasn’t mine, and if I will take it I should and least split it with the people in need. So instead of keeping the Ulysses S. Grant, I donated it to charity for people who needed it more.— Jason, Northbrook, IllinoisAfter school, my brother and I walk home and then play basketball until we get tired or until our parents call us home. One day, my phone kept falling out of my pocket, and so I kept it on the front bumper of my mom’s car … The next morning, my mom dropped my brother and me to school. When I sat down in my first period class, I remembered that I had forgotten my phone. While walking to my next class, I saw a friend and asked them if I could borrow their phone. I called my mom and found out that she went into the city and that she hadn’t removed my phone from her car’s front bumper. When she came to pick me up, it was surprisingly still there.— Farah, New JerseyThe weirdest thing that I have found were a set of car keys in a grocery store. They were just sitting there in the cereal isle on a random shelf. The weirdest part about them is they were filled with keys for about 8 different cars. Most key chains normally have one car key maybe 2 but I have never seen that before. I quickly took the keys up to front desk to see if someone knew who the keys belonged to. The people at the front desk were just as shocked as I was. They called out on the large speaker and the owner came in a few minutes later. Turns out he was an auto mechanic, but it was still one of the weirdest set of keys I have ever seen— Eli Meyer, Hoggard High SchoolOf all the random items that have been lost and I’ve found. There is one that has stuck with me. It was the time I found a soaking wet and muddy $2 bill. There are about 1.2 billion $2 bills in circulation right now. They are still being printed but are the least common bill and made it even more special to me. For me it meant I had really good luck. That rainy day I found that dollar bill laying in the mud outside my front door wasn’t going well. Nothing seemed to go right that day, my dog had just passed away. I felt numb and decided to walk outside to find peace. There the dollar bill was. Katie was the first pet and dog I had ever owned, she meant the world to me. Finding that $2 bill was a sign I believe. It was there to show me even though I thought all my good luck had left me that day, it showed me I hadn’t. The $2 bill which I still have to this day is a reminder to me no matter how much bad luck I may have the good will soon come.— Amber Small, Hoggard High School, Wilmington NCWhat we lost and wish we could get backWhen I was six or so, my mother sent me to art school during the weekends. I would nervously enter the classroom every Sunday with my immense rack of a hundred or so markers. Pressured to draw comparably to the other kids, I strained to follow the teacher’s step-by-step instructions and chose precisely from my wide variety of hues. By the end of one week, I had drawn what I must say was a very elegant dolphin, with bold black outlines and a deep aqua shade.I remember the ride home vividly. Carefully admiring my work, I noticed that the paper was still sodden with my aggressively-applied ink. That couldn’t do. I prudently rolled down my window and stuck my portrait out into the wind.For a while the dolphin flapped nobly, sending ticklish vibrations up my arm. I laughed at the amusement. We rushed over a small bridge. The dolphin flailed wildly, sharply whipped back and forth, back and forth, audibly crackling in the wind. And then she was free.I did not even see it land. Despite my pleas, Mother would not pull over. I’ve always assumed since then that my dolphin drifted down slowly, gently, over the rails of the bridge, into that gurgling brook. I frequently think about where it could be now. There’s part of me that believes it’s still there, patiently tucked under some stone, waiting for me.— Andrew Ni, Princeton, NJDefinitely the most memorable thing I’ve lost was my glasses. I remember I had taken them off to take a shower (as one does) and afterwards when I left the bathroom I forgot to get them. Eventually, I realized I left them and went looking but when I got to the bathroom they weren’t there! … After about 3 days of searching every nook and cranny in my house I decided to just give up. We even had to move which is when I figured I’d find them but nope! To this day I still have absolutely no clue where they are! I joke around whenever I bring it up and say a ghost stole them from me cause they needed to read something but ended up keeping them since my frantic panicking was funny to them.— Julliet Gonzalez, Sarasota, FLIn 2012, My grandma had just come back from the Dominican Republic bearing gifts. She came with different cheeses, candies, and sweets but for me, she brought something special. She brought me these beautiful light blue, cube shaped earrings with a little pearl hanging at the bottom. I fell in love with them so I wore them to school to show off. Thinking I was the coolest 4th grader around, I went to all my friends showing them my new earrings. I went along with my day and during lunch I tried to show my friends the earrings but I only found an earring. I looked around where I was, I retraced my steps and I was not able to find my earrings pair. Saddened, I went home discouraged. I put the one earring in a jewelry box all on its lonesome never to find its pair again. To this day I still wonder if anyone found my precious earring.— Nyleah F., Providence, Rhode Island__________Our most popular Picture Prompt this week, “Your Food Obsession,” was inspired by the image above from a comic about one man’s lifelong love affair with the McRib. We asked students to mimic the comic and write short stories about the foods they love or loathe.From Flamin’ Hot Cheetos and pulled pork to borscht and horseradish-flavored cheese, they wrote passionately about their favorite and least favorite foods. Below, some of the most entertaining descriptions and stories about how these obsessions came to be. At the end, a section called “Living on the edge” from two students with serious allergies who are compelled to eat those foods anyway.The foods we loveI believe my obsession started with ice cream when I was around five years old. The summer of 2011 was a big amusement park year for my family, we had gone Hershey Park, Doney Park, and the amusement parks along the shore. I remember these summer trips being funny except for the fact that I was too short to ride any of the major rides. This got me so upset because all my cousins were tall so they would get on all the fun rides, while I was left to the baby rides. During this time I would go through one or two ice cream cones waiting for their rides to be over so we finally find a cool ride I could get on. I could be bold in my choice or I could be plain simple. This choice was totally up to me which was a delight to me because I had so little control over everything else, this was something that I could choose.— Niara Hughes, Masterman, Philadelphia, PAEver since I was a wee boy I always enjoyed sunflower seeds. They are everything you want in a small oval-ish shape. They have phosphorus. They have magnesium. They also have iron, calcium, some fats I think, potassium, protein and vitamin E, and the added benefits of minerals like copper and zinc. Sunflower seeds also are great because it can get turned into many, many things. Thing one, halva. Halva is pretty ok and is basically a brick made of blended sunflower seeds and sugar. My grandmas toothless friend Anastasia, can also enjoy sunflower seeds too. She can do this with tahini. Tahini is basically liquid sunflower seeds. I very much enjoy this, and especially enjoy eating this with a spoon, which is my grandmas preferred tactic. And finally baklava. Even though baklava could be made with nuts, sunflower seeds are also a good alternative when your out of nuts. You can also make sunflower seed butter, which is basically peanut butter, but more sunflower seed tasting. Sunflower seeds are an easy harvest. My grandma does this in her spare time. And she has a lot of spare time.— George Siokos, Masterman PhiladelphiaLet’s be real: There is nothing better than a hot cheesy bowl of macaroni and cheese. How can you ever resist a bowl of pasta drenched in loads of cheese. The first time I tasted mac and cheese I was 5 years old and I loved it since that very moment.— Eleena John, Masterman, Philly, PAThe most irresistible food is my summer camp’s grilled cheese. It is the best thing in the entire world and this comes out of the mouth of someone who doesn’t like normal grilled cheese. I don’t know what makes this grilled cheese so good but maybe it is because of how much fun you have when eating it. Eating during grilled cheese Wednesdays is an intense competition. Everyone competes to see how many halves you can eat. Grilled cheese truly runs my camp. There is the legend of the grilled cheese and many conspiracies to why it is so good. The legend is for 20 years an evil chef took the grilled cheese away and when the grilled cheese returned everyone dressed up. Now there is a tradition for the oldest cabin girls to wear their nicest clothes on grilled cheese day.— Laila, Masterman, PhillyWhen I was at the age of 3, I remember my first time trying steak was at a cookout with my mother’s side of the family. It was my Uncle Frank’s cookout. He made the hot dogs, sausages, ribs and hamburgers. I tried all of them because my mother would give me a piece due to me not being able to swallow food right. Once I smelled the juicy and tasteful steak hit the grill, I automatically ran too my Uncle Frank with my two little legs and politely asked, ”What’s that?” He answered, ”T-Bone steak. I’m making it just right. Did you want some?” I shook my head like crazy, while he gave me a piece. While I was eating a piece of the steak, my little mind exploded.— Mahjeah Haile-Jenkins, J.R. Masterman, Philadelphia, PAA Kathi roll is Indian cuisine and it is a type of sandwich and originated in Kolkata, India. This is just a food that has a taste that never gets old. It has so many things going on inside that it feels like you are eating heaven. The only bad thing about a Kathi roll is when you finish.— Aryan Patel, Philadelphia, PA MastermanEver since I was able to the eat, there has been one food that I have thoroughly enjoyed throughout the time I’ve been on the planet. This highly recognizable, and delicious entreè has been one of the only things that has yet to let me down and I hope never will. When I was first introduced to meatloaf it blew me away.— Ahsaan M., Masterman, Philadelphia, PA[My dad] is the one who introduced me to the beautiful world of cheeseburgers. One night, he was making dinner when I was younger, he called upstairs to see if I wanted cheese on my burger, and at that moment I was like ew, that sounds gross and I did too much thinking to answer so he just put cheese on the burger. When I was forced to taste it, I closed my eyes and saw fireworks.— Azalea Derrickson, Masterman School, PhillyMy food obsession? Well, I have many, and they all have something in common: they’re all mango-flavored. Rita’s mango water ice, Frooti (brand of mango juice), mango lassi (a yogurt-based drink), actual mangoes, and mango pickle.— Ereena Lalu, J.R. Masterman School, PhiladelphiaIt is a snack and a meal, the endless possibilities with popcorn really excite me. You can make sweet popcorn, candied popcorn, savory popcorn. There is also, cheesy popcorn, meaty popcorn, buttery popcorn and naked popcorn.— Lucas Awad, Masterman, PhiladelphiaOver the course of my life, roughly a decade and a half, mint chocolate chip has been my favorite flavor and the only true constant in my life. No matter what was a happening, whether I was uprooting my entire life while moving, or watching helplessly as a hurricane bore down on my home, or even if I just had a bad day, I could sit down with a bowl of ice cream, and unfailingly have a few minutes of bliss.— Jake Hession, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCHot sauce is brewed on the springs on Mount Olympus and is purified by the gods. Yes, it is that good! Anything that is not “good” will be good with the application of hot sauce. I put hot sauce on many things- especially foods like rice, beans, and just about any vegetable (although there is much, much more!). There is a bottle of hot sauce at the end of the line in my cafeteria at school, and when it is not there, I am sad.— Jason S., Philadelphia, PA, MastermanMy obsession with the cheese steak began when I was but a wee lad, and had not experienced much in my short life up until that point. That day, when I was four years old, my life changed, and my appetite became fixated on the sandwich. Sure, I would eat other things, but I knew that there was only one item that could satiate my truest cravings. I tried all kinds of toppings, peppers, hot peppers, the list went on, but I realized that only one combination of ingredients could ever be the same as that first, life-altering bite, that list being a cheese steak with solely meat, Cheese Whiz, and onions.— Jonah A., Masterman SchoolI think it all started when I was four or five and my mom and I were eating at a diner in New York. I usually ate eggs and bacon while my mom ate my leftovers (since I was small and the plate was huge), but this time my mom ordered a Greek salad. She told me to try some because it was very healthy, but I did not like the look of all the different shapes in the plate. I settled for a round light green object with seeds in the middle because we had just learned how to plant seeds at my school. When I tried it, I immediately fell in love with the cucumbers. I ate every single one off the Greek salad and completely forgot about my bacon. When I was 10 years old, I was already perfecting the different ways to cut the skin of the cucumber and how to make different shapes with the cucumber. At 12 years old, I would sometimes eat three cucumbers a day during the summer.— Tino K., Masterman PhiladelphiaXiao long bao consist of a ball of meat, usually pork or crab or both, and broth inside a dumpling skin. You have to eat a xiao long bao carefully, as you can puncture the skin easily, and all of the broth will seep out. I eat xiao long bao with chopsticks and a Chinese spoon. You carefully grab the top of the dumpling with your chopsticks, then put the dumpling on your spoon over a bowl, in case you accidentally puncture it. Then you bite the top of the dumpling off in order to let it cool down. After that, depending on its temperature, you can just eat the entire thing or eat it in smaller bites. I love xiao long bao and often try to beat my record of 16 in one sitting.— Nicolas Dorazio, J.R. Masterman School, Philadelphia PAA food I loved since my childhood, is a sacred ritual every year at Chinese New Year. This food to my family is so important, that if you don’t include it on your dinner list, you must pay all guest 1 dollar. And that dish is dumplings drizzled in chili oil.— Eric Li, Masterman, PhiladelphiaThere is this certain food that I love but it’s not necessarily my favorite food. It’s a very uncommon food item that I’m always craving. It is Horseradish Cheese. its like normal cheddar cheese but with a little radish kick in it. it caught me and my dad’s eye once at our local supermarket and we though “hmm might as well try it”. we bought it and when we got home we cut slices for each of us to get a taste. it was amazing.— simon rathmann, julian r masterman schoolThe foods we loatheI. Hate. Mushrooms. Straight and simple. Mushrooms and I have never, ever gotten along. First of all it is a fungus and who would want to eat a fungus? They grow from warm, moist places that are usually rotten (and most of the time they stink!). Not only that but when you eat them they have this weird mushy texture that will make you want to barf. Mushrooms are the villains of foods. They don’t add flavor to your meal, instead they suck the life out of it.— Paige Phillips, Hoggard High School, Wilmington NCI HATE shellfish like clams and muscles. It just tastes like seawater and sadness. WHO LIKES THE TASTE OF SEAWATER!?!?— Liam S., Masterman, PhiladelphiaOne of my all time least favorite food is olives. I really despise everything about them, to their taste and even their looks, they just looks like something straight out of a sci-fi movie and when I first tasted one I threw up. I can’t even get started on the red thing inside the green olives. As a kid I thought it was like the blood of the olive or something weird so I just never touched one. Even when someone ate an olive near me it made me cringe just by the sound of it when you eat it.— Abdoul Diallo, Julia R. Masterman, PhiladelphiaI have an extreme hatred for anything artificially orange flavored. This stems from when I got a sinus infection at the age of 8 and was required to take amoxicillin, an orange-flavored liquid medicine. I had to take about 5 tablespoons twice a day for two weeks, and let me tell you, it was one of the most horrific and torturous experiences of my life. The second it touched my tongue, I gagged and thought I was actually going to throw up.— Sivan Frankel, Masterman School, Philadelphia, PAFish eggs. I hate everything about them, from the texture to the taste, and just thinking about eating them is enough to make me feel like vomiting. I have eaten three types of fish eggs before, including ikura (red caviar) and mentaiko (cod roe). But the most disgusting way I have eaten fish eggs before is by eating a fried shishamo (a type of small fish), and not knowing that they are fried while they still have eggs inside of them. I had never liked shishamo, and taking a bite out of one and noticing hundreds of small, white eggs spill out just made me despise those fried fish even more.— Kaya Perelman, Masterman, PhiladelphiaI’d like to have a conversation with someone who likes vinegar, just so I can ask them what the appeal is.— Zephyr Spatz, Philadelphia, @MastermanEvery type of chocolate, white chocolate, dark chocolate, and milk chocolate, it is all disgusting. Part of the reason I hate it so much is because of my sister. When we were younger, it was all she ate, every meal was chocolate. She loved it so much I just never wanted to eat it. I tried it before and did not like it, so when she ate so much chocolate, it made me not want to eat it because I did not want to do anything she did. After that, I never tried it again and to this day, I still hate chocolate, and it still makes me sick.— Jonnah Berger, Masterman, Philadelphia, PAI personally have a burning hatred of beets, not like music beats but rather the vegetable with the highest sugar content in its class. When I first tried beets, I thought that they had gone bad because my mother had described them as sweet and really good, but I only tasted a ripe sickening taste. I of course then yelled “ewwwwww!!,” then my mom ran over and asked what the fuss was and I responded with something along the lines of “you gave me one that went bad, it’s all squishy and gross!” She then picked up my fork and to a bite for herself. She said that it didn’t go bad and that this was just how it tasted.— Ian Birley, Masterman PhiladelphiaOne food that I now despise would have to be Borscht soup. It is made of potatoes, onions, carrots, and most importantly, beets. When I was younger, I would eat Borscht (or WANT to eat Borscht) every single day. In fact, I used to refuse to eat soup that wasn’t the color red. “What happened?” is the question that I now ask myself, since I cannot even look at the soup without gagging. I think that it is the combination of soggy, wet carrots and the slippery, disgusting onions that I can’t stand. Other Russians (or Belarussians/ Ukrainians) find it so strange that I don’t like a TRADITIONAL Russian dish, but I don’t care — I just can’t bring myself to eat it.— Hanna Sh, J.R. Masterman, Philadelphia, PA‘Living on the edge’While this isn’t really an obsession, whenever I see a food that has milk I’m compelled to eat it. The only problem is that I’m allergic to all dairy products. Ever since the age of 4, I was careful not to eat anything with milk. I would meticulously read over food labels, and if I was slightly suspicious of whether or not the food product had milk I would not eat it. That all changed when I was 10. When I was 10 I started to feel rebellious. I wanted to live on the edge, and while eating something you’re allergic isn’t exactly the peak of living on the edge it was for me. I was the kid who was scared of taking risks, and here I was. The first dairy product I knowingly tried was sour cream and onion chips. I ate the whole bag, and while my lips felt tingly and my throat hurt my adrenaline was through the roof. I felt ecstatic. It made me feel on edge, and to this day eating dairy is the closest I will be to feeling energized.Ever since then if I see food that contains milk I try to eat it, whether it is swiping Cheez Its from my friends or eating pizza before a concert. I don’t even like the taste of dairy products. Cheese disgusts me and chocolate makes me feel sick. At this point, the compulsion to eat dairy overrides any common sense I have left. The only reason I don’t eat any and all dairy around me is because my friends are worried that this compulsion to eat dairy is going to kill me one day. Which is totally fair.— Ami S, Masterman, PhiladelphiaWhen I was younger, I really liked things that had hazelnuts in them like Nutella and Ferrero Rocher. I also just liked snacking on hazelnuts by themselves in general. When I realized I had obtained an allergy to them, I was absolutely devastated. Hazelnuts were my childhood, and it was like part of my innocent childish memories were stripped away from me. I was always wondering what hazelnuts tasted like because over 5 years I forgot what it tasted like.One day I just decided to eat it. What’s the worst that could happen? I mean, sure I could go to the hospital and be in excruciating pain, but I want to relive my childhood. I took a small spoonful of Nutella, spread it on a small cracker, sucked air into my stomach, and ate it. All my memories came flooding back from this food I loved so deeply. It was like I was in a state of euphoria. Until my senses hit me like a rock and suffered the consequences of the food. It was so bad, I almost passed out and went to the hospital. It was a crazy experience, and I don’t regret any bit of it.— Kate Chin, Masterman, Philadelphia, PA__________On Feb. 20, less than a minute into a nationally televised game against archrival North Carolina, Duke’s Zion Williamson injured his right knee when one of his Nike sneakers “exploded.” The incident revived questions about whether shoe companies should be able to pay to have players exclusively wear their gear, and whether college athletes should get a cut of the profits. We posed these questions to students in this Student Opinion question.The responses were split down the middle, with students on both sides of the debate arguing their cases persuasively. We chose the comments below because they used a compelling combination of logic, ethics, emotion, statistics and even United States laws to support their claims.No, college athletes should not be paid.I think they really already are getting paid. When we talk about college athletes getting paid we’re usually talking about the best of the best. The ones who have full scholarships to their colleges, many times these colleges would costs in the tens of thousands some even in the hundred thousand, but college athletes don’t need to pay anything. They are given access to some of the best facilities in the world and sometimes even better than professional sports teams. With these facilities, these players can push themselves to their limits and become the best versions of themselves.If you bring actual money into college sports it will change it forever, it will change the dynamic of the whole sport. Many players love being in college and if they choose the right college and coach they will always be welcomed back and a second home. Not only are the players given the facilities to develop into great athletes but if they choose a great coach, the coach will mold them into great young men who are fit for anything. At Clemson University there is an emphasis on this, Dabo Swinney the head coach for the football team only recruits athletes that he finds fitting for the program. The whole vibe at Clemson is a very good vibe and many players build bonds that will last forever. In all, the college experience is a great one and it really isn’t the college experience after players are paid, it just becomes another division of professional sports.— Brian SSIS, HCMC, VietnamCollege sports are only to represent your college and make them proud. If they want money and the sports department is not giving it then let them not participate. I am sure the team is not going to lose out. Usually, in sports, there are a lot of people who try out so it is easy to find a replacement for him. Moreover, all the sports gets you good fame and a good personality.— Aadesh SSIS, HCMC, VietnamCollege sports are a preparation for professional sports. This drives many athletes to attain college level skills; they use the more competitive game and intense training to get a feel for a higher level. Tracy argues that too many organizations “reap billions of dollars from the efforts and talents of preprofessional athletes.” Yes, their games are televised, but this doesn’t just bring profit to companies and colleges. It publicizes players and gives them an opportunity to be scouted by professional coaches.— Zoe Lee, Hoggard, Wilmington, NCI feel as a student athlete, your attending school not only to play sports but to also obtain good education to succeed in life. When your playing a sport for a school, your basically representing your school for whatever sport your playing. While playing for the school, the coordinators for the sports and other volunteers put in a lot of money to make sure you have the essentials you need in order to play … College Athletes are provided with so much stuff that they don’t really need to worry about money. They are well taken cared of.— Icess Tresvik, John T. Hoggard HighAt first, I believed that college athletes should be paid, because they work as hard and are as good as professionals, provide a source of entertainment, and sell millions of tickets per game they play. However, after reading through the comment section, I’ve changed my mind … The whole point of college is to get a good education and to use that education in the future to help them guide their way to their careers. However, if they start getting paid, they will focus on money and not their education. That can result in a decrease of interest in education and grades of college players will also decrease, leading to the chances of being a pro athlete decreasing as well. Furthermore, if college athletes get paid, the pay will most likely be different for each player, and that will create a competitive atmosphere among the same team of athletes. If college athletes get paid, the pay of each player will be what defines them, instead of their skills. Therefore, I think that college athletes shouldn’t be paid.— Soyoung, SSIS, HCMC, VietnamYes, college athletes deserve a cut of the profits.In my opinion, I do believe college athletes should be paid or at least be able to get some type of income. These athletes are bringing in over 11 billion dollars a year, including TV broadcasting, tickets, and even sponsors. Also the NCAA prohibits these athletes from getting a job or receiving any type of income, and some of these athletes don’t come from high, rich families and they don’t receive a full ride so they don’t know how to pay for the rest of their tuition.In the case of Zion Williamson, he should for sure be paid! The game between Duke and UNC did not come cheap, the average price for the game was a little over nine thousand. and cheapest price was a little under three thousand. That is what most call the “Zion effect”.— Tayo Ojo, Everman High SchoolPeople always say that college athletes should be thankful that they get a scholarship, but scholarships aren’t enough. Degrees are useless to athletes. They often don’t get meaningful degrees. They don’t connections when it comes to jobs, and they aren’t allowed to get internships because of N.C.A.A rules. Students also can’t work during the season. Most of them don’t care about their subject. I don’t blame them, because they have to balance sports and classes, and their schedule sounds like a nightmare. They aren’t guided on life outside of sports. If these students get a job outside of sports they’re going to have a hard time competing in the job market.The athletes should get paid so they have something to fall back on if they don’t become professional athletes (which has less than a 2% chance of happening). Even if college was useful, only 3% of athletes get enough grants and scholarships to cover the full cost of college. N.C.A.A. doesn’t even compensate for players injuries. There are 8 injuries for every 1000 and there were 41,000 injuries from 2004 to 2009. Players can lose scholarships if they get injured. The word student-athlete was created in the ’50s to avoid workers compensation.— Ami S, Masterman, PhiladelphiaAt first glance, the prospect of paying college student a salary on top of their scholarship seems ridiculous. However, when you look closer, and on a case to case basis, it becomes more ridiculous to ignore the evidence that points to the contrary. For college athletes at this level of competition, they have had to train and devote their entire lives to becoming the physical specimen needed to play division one athletics. With this kind of commitment to excellence often comes a disregard for other things. If these students are spending more of their time becoming athletes than studying and learning, they will not be well suited for the world after sports. Therefore, by using these students talents to make money for the NCAA and not compensating these players, they are not only stealing from them, but compromising their future forever.— Ezra LombardiTickets for the Duke vs Carolina game were being sold for upwards of 2,000 dollars and I can personally guarantee that athletes like Zion Williamson did not see a penny of this money. Ironically, without athletes, these events would not be possible. Although college athletes receive prestigious scholarships, they are minuscule compared to the amount colleges, brands, and the NCAA make from one game alone. I believe college athletes should receive a percentage of the money that is made from events they participate in, games they play, and use of their image.Even though college athletes are paid in fame, training, and scholarships, there are also definite risks and drawbacks. Injury is a constant risk that could potentially end the career of any athlete at any time. Zion Williamson is a perfect example of this- if his injury had been worse, his career could have been ended, and any athletic scholarship would be revoked.— Erin Johnston, Hoggard High School, Wilmington NCThey should be paid, but how?People have brought up the point that scholarships aren’t enough and that since the NCAA and the college makes so much money off of some of these games, then players should be paid for them. But if players were played for these games, then how much would they be paid. Would all athletes be paid the same amount, or would they be paid off based on the amount of tickets they sell for their games.I think all athletes being paid a fixed amount for each game would be a good way for them to be able to keep playing their sport as well being able to have money to survive in college. But I feel like if a system like this was put in place then there would be outrage. People would say that athletes should be paid based on the amount of tickets their game sells, but is that really fair? Obviously college football and basketball will sell the most tickets by far, and then players on those teams would get paid more. But some sports like track and baseball would not sell anywhere near as much tickets and then there players would be paid less.I think that if this system is put in place there would be outrage and it would lead to more debates on the NCAA system, because then bench players who rarely see playing time would be paid more than stars in other sports. I think that a way to resolve the pay issue would be to let student athletes get other jobs— Paul N, NHRHS, NJStudent-athletes are being exploited by schools, the N.C.A.A. and shoe companies.I believe student-athletes should be paid something in addition to scholarships and grants even if it is minimal. Big corporations take all the money from the athletes. For example, Nike gets to showcase their jerseys and shoes every single national televised game. Meanwhile, Zion is not getting anything. Every Williamson jersey that is sold isn’t giving money to Zion. It is all going toward Nike. If college athletes were allowed to sign with a shoe brand Zion would definitely have its own brand … Overall, the NCAA and other companies are taking advantage of student-athletes and these athletes should be getting paid something.— Michael H, NHRHSCompanies like Nike and the NCAA turn collage players into walking ads and yet these players get nothing. Its like if you didn’t pay to put ads on billboards but those billboards were self dependent living things who needed to somehow pay for food and a decent living space while also taking classes and having billboard practice every day after those classes and one single scrape on that billboard could mean the end of it’s carrier except it’s not a career because they don’t get paid. I can’t put myself in Zion Williamson’s shoes because I’m not in his situation and I in no way know all the facts, but I do believe he would be justified in sitting out the rest of the college season because at the end of the day he should be more concerned for his own prosperity then the prosperity of the executives that run the NCAA.— Henry Scott, J.R Masterman Philadelphia PAYes. If you use an athlete’s likeness, they should be compensated fairly. If Zion jerseys are sold in bookstores (regardless of whether his last name is on the jersey) and they’re using his commercial image to sell tix, he should be compensated for a percentage of those sales?!— Nick, Boston