The final score of one of the most anticipated college basketball games of the season quickly turned into an afterthought on Wednesday night when the star Duke freshman Zion Williamson left the game with a bizarre injury within a minute of the opening tip-off.Williamson, who is widely expected to be the top pick in the N.B.A. draft later this year, appeared to twist his left foot as his sneaker fell apart — with the sole literally breaking off at the seam — while he made a move near the free-throw line. Falling backward, Williamson reached for his right knee after falling to the court.He walked off the court and briefly tried a new pair of sneakers on the bench, but then left the court for the locker room and did not return. After the final whistle, Duke announced that Williamson had sustained a sprained knee.“We’re very concerned about Zion,” Coach Mike Krzyzewski said. “It’s a mild knee sprain. We will know about length of time tomorrow. It’s stable.”Nike, which outfits Duke’s teams and provided Williamson’s shoes, said in a statement: “We are obviously concerned and want to wish Zion a speedy recovery. The quality and performance of our products are of utmost importance. While this is an isolated occurrence, we are working to identify the issue.”No. 8 North Carolina (21-5), nine-point underdogs before the game at the Blue Devils’ Cameron Indoor Stadium, went on to defeat No. 1 Duke (23-3), 88-72, in a game that was hardly close, particularly once the second half began. The Tar Heels’ senior Luke Maye amassed 30 points and 15 rebounds while being conspicuously not guarded by Williamson, the consensus best player in college basketball.“When the big fellow goes out of the game, it changes a lot of stuff for them,” North Carolina Coach Roy Williams said.Former President Barack Obama and the film director Spike Lee were among those taking in the first matchup this season between the two Atlantic Coast Conference heavyweights known for their fierce rivalry; students had camped out for days to attend, and fans paid thousands of dollars for tickets. The injury to Williamson might be of particular interest to Lee, a well-known fan of the Knicks, one of the several N.B.A. teams that have been hoping to end up with the first pick in the draft so they can select Williamson.Duke still has two other freshmen who are likely to be selected with lottery picks in the draft, R.J. Barrett and Cam Reddish; Barrett led the Blue Devils with 33 points and 13 rebounds, while Reddish added 27 points. But Williamson, who is listed at 6 feet 7 inches and 285 pounds but has the speed of a guard, has been the presumptive player of the year and the prime reason for Duke’s top ranking, and he has captured the sport’s imagination with his immaculate dunks and seemingly impossible defensive efforts.Duke’s next game is on Saturday at Syracuse (18-8), one of three teams to beat Duke this season. (The Orange were dealing with a crisis of their own on Thursday morning after their longtime coach, Jim Boeheim, struck and killed a man with his car on the way home from a game Wednesday night. The police said it appeared to be an accident.) North Carolina will host No. 16 Florida State (20-5).