Amid all the breathless chatter these days about Zion Williamson and Duke being favored to win the N.C.A.A. Tournament, which begins next week, it is easy to forget that Villanova is the reigning champion and will remain so until — and only if — it is dethroned.“For everybody who doesn’t think that Villanova’s still one of the elite teams in the country — wait till they play them,” Providence Coach Ed Cooley said after his team lost to the Wildcats in the Big East tournament on Thursday.This has been a season of transition at Villanova, but in many ways it has been a lot like the last few that came before it. Despite having lost four players to the N.B.A. from last season’s N.C.A.A. title team — Villanova’s second championship in the past three years — the Wildcats won the Big East regular-season crown for the fifth time in six years. A win in this week’s conference tournament at Madison Square Garden would be their fourth in five years. Two Wildcats — guard Phil Booth and forward Eric Paschall — were unanimous selections to the all-Big East team this week, and a third starter — forward Saddiq Bey — made the all-freshman squad.Yet when experts list the top contenders to lift the N.C.A.A. championship trophy, they often start with Duke and its star freshmen, Williamson and R. J. Barrett; the Blue Devils’ Atlantic Coast Conference rivals Virginia and North Carolina; perpetually competitive Kentucky; and top-ranked Gonzaga. Those lists rarely run deep enough to include Villanova.“We see it all,” Coach Jay Wright said. “And we always tell them, if we’re not getting any attention right now, it’s fine. But we’re not thinking we’re not any good because of it.”Wright’s expectations for this season had to be adjusted even before it began. Entering last year’s N.C.A.A. Tournament, Wright expected to lose two of his best players, Mikal Bridges and Jalen Brunson, to the N.B.A. draft. But after the Wildcats beat Michigan in the final, two underclassmen — forward Omari Spellman and guard Donte DiVincenzo — decided to turn professional as well.Had Spellman and DiVincenzo returned, Villanova probably would have been favored to repeat as national champion. Even if only one had come back, Villanova would have been among the favorites. Instead, all four players were selected in the first 33 picks of the draft.That changed the calculus for Wright. In recent years, Villanova had built its success by redshirting players — last year’s roster featured seven, including Bridges, Spellman and DiVincenzo — who had taken a year to learn Wright’s system and the team’s methods without competing in games. But the departures of four key players in one off-season forced Wright to adapt on the fly.To compensate for a sudden lack of depth, Wright did something he rarely does: He added a graduate transfer, the former Albany guard Joe Cremo, who offered experience and scoring in the backcourt. And then he told Booth and Eric Paschall, two redshirt seniors, that he would expect more from them.The rebuilt Wildcats have struggled at times. Villanova has lost nine games this season after losing only four all of last year. It opened the season with a 27-point home loss to Michigan in a game that was billed as a national championship rematch, and it later endured two sets of back-to-back losses and a recent three-game losing streak.Still, Booth and Paschall have steadied the ship; they are now the Wildcats’ leading scorers.“I couldn’t be more proud of them,” Wright said, adding: “They had a really difficult task in our program this year with a lot of new guys. Not just leading them but being patient with them and teaching them.”Along with Booth and Paschall, Wright has had to rely heavily on the sophomore Collin Gillespie, who has seamlessly taken over the point guard duties once held by Brunson. “He’s a sophomore,” Wright said, “and we’re kind of treating him like a senior.”Regardless of what happens this weekend or over the next few weeks, though, Villanova’s future looks bright. Wright, 57, is one of two active Division I men’s coaches eligible this year for the basketball hall of fame, and he is widely expected to get in. And new talent is already on the way: The lure of two recent national titles has helped Wright lock up perhaps the country’s best recruiting class for 2019.Whether this Villanova team can match the success of its recent predecessors before those players arrive remains to be seen. The Wildcats beat fourth-seeded Xavier, 71-67, in overtime Friday night to advance to Saturday’s conference title game against Seton Hall, which defeated Marquette in the other semifinal.So Wright and his team might be posing with a trophy while they await their N.C.A.A. seed on Sunday night.What they do from there could have everyone talking about the N.C.A.A.’s forgotten favorites again.