James L. Dolan, the owner of the Knicks, took exception to a fan at Madison Square Garden who suggested that he sell the team. Dolan’s response: threatening to bar the fan from future games.In a video released by TMZ, Dolan is seen leaving the courtside area late in the Knicks’ loss to the Sacramento Kings on Saturday. A fan yells from off camera, “Sell the team.”Dolan stops quickly and responds, “You think I should sell the team?” and beckons the fan to come nearer. “You want to not come to any more games?”“Why?” the fan asks.“That’s rude,” Dolan says.“It’s an opinion,” the fan contends.“No, it’s not an opinion, and you know what? Enjoy watching them on TV,” Dolan says. He walks away and seems to signal with his eyes to guards, and then some assistants call out, “Hold him,” apparently in reference to the fan.It was not clear if any fan was actually banned. The Madison Square Garden company said in a statement, “Our policy is and will continue to be that if you are disrespectful to anyone in our venues, we will ask you not to return.”The Knicks have had a lot of bad seasons recently — five years without a playoff appearance. But this season has been particularly ugly, with the team, at 13-54, possessing the worst record in the league. A rare Knicks victory on the night of the Academy Awards was so noteworthy that Samuel L. Jackson publicly alerted the Knicks superfan Spike Lee, seated in the audience, about it.The team has occasionally seemed to lash out at criticism. At the end of December, the Knicks invited reporters to a news conference with Steve Mills, the team president, but the team failed to notify The Daily News, presumably because of its coverage of the team’s dismal season. A Daily News back page had encouraged Dolan to sell the team. The headline read: “DO IT! According to a report, James Dolan, who’s sick of being berated by fans, won’t rule out selling Knicks … or Rangers.”Last year he also struck back at the radio station WFAN after a host, Maggie Gray, sharply criticized him. In response, he barred his employees from doing any business with WFAN and other stations run by its parent company, Entercom.Dolan has also had several run-ins in and around the Garden. Two seasons ago, he got into a verbal altercation with a fan outside the arena, a dispute that also began with a recommendation that he sell the team.Charles Oakley, a beloved former star, was handcuffed and ejected from the Garden the same season. Oakley, who had been critical of Dolan, said security guards asked him why he was sitting near Dolan. The team claimed Oakley had acted abusively, and Dolan said on a radio show, without providing evidence, that Oakley might have had an alcohol problem.As a result of the team’s struggles, and his own missteps, Dolan is a frequent target of disdain from Knicks fans, and a good percentage of them might agree with the anonymous fan on the TMZ video imploring him to sell. Many fans gave up on 2018-19 long ago and instead are looking ahead to next season, with the hope that the team will land the No. 1 draft pick or perhaps sign a marquee free agent or two. But for now, no change at the top of the Knicks is on the horizon.