LOUISVILLE, Ky. — They could hear the whispers. One year after taking one of the most infamous defeats in N.C.A.A. tournament history by becoming the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16 seed, the Virginia Cavaliers came back stronger than ever. They won the Atlantic Coast Conference regular season, and still there were skeptics. Earning the No. 1 seed in the South Region did little to quiet them.They play ugly, the critics said. They do not have the offense to prevail in a key tournament game. Sure, they can play defense, but that won’t be enough in March.After a first-round scare against Gardner-Webb, yet another No. 16 seed, the cries grew louder. No way could this squad cut down the nets in Louisville. No way could Virginia make it to Minneapolis and the Final Four.Oh, how wrong those skeptics were. Virginia, in an overtime thriller, turned back third-seeded Purdue, 80-75, to punch its ticket.“I don’t care about the critics,” Cavaliers Coach Tony Bennett said, adding: “I just know it was really hard to lose in the first round. It stung. It was, as I said, a painful gift. It was so humbling but it drew me and drew our team closer in a way we couldn’t have gone.”It first appeared as if the game would be played at Purdue’s pace. Both teams scored on their first four possessions, with Purdue taking an 11-8 lead just 3 minutes 30 seconds in. And a Virginia team that had allowed more than 70 points only three times this season appeared to be on its way to yielding far more.But the hot shooting soon ceased, and empty trips became the norm. Virginia scored just 4 points in 7:13, which allowed Purdue to edge clear and take a 22-12 lead. The double-digit advantage prompted raucous “Boiler Up!” chants from the Purdue faithful. They sensed a foe on the ropes, a quick knockout in the offing.The Cavaliers, though, clamped down, giving up just 8 points over the last 9:46 of the first half to get back in the contest. Even Ryan Cline — the Purdue senior guard who seemed as if he could not miss during Thursday night’s regional semifinal, and who on Saturday picked up where he had left off — began to cool off. Only Carsen Edwards found success for the Boilermakers on offense in the first half, putting up 16 points en route to a game-high 42.“Never do I feel like I’m choosing to carry the team,” Edwards said. “It’s just I felt good and had rhythm on the shots I was taking, and they were just able to go in.”Little by little, Virginia ate into the deficit, whittling it to 1 at halftime, 30-29. The Cavaliers survived a poor shooting half from one of their key scorers, Kyle Guy, who went just 1 for 6. They also nearly lost him when he took a bad step and was left clutching his ankle and writhing in pain. But Guy, a junior guard, made it to the sideline and was able to return after his ankle had been taped up.Good thing for Virginia, because Guy found his stroke coming out of the locker room. One 3-pointer. Then another. Then another. The Cavaliers, once 10 behind, were now 7 points to the good — leading by 41-34 with 15:18 to play.But Edwards was inspired to match Guy’s sharpshooting with a 3-point hat trick of his own — on three straight trips, to boot. After the last of them, which brought Purdue to 50-46, Edwards turned to the Boilermakers’ contingent and offered a nod of acknowledgment. He was determined to carry his squad across the finish line.So too was Guy, who finished with 25 points. Back and forth the two stars went. For a time, it seemed as if they were the only two on the floor. They made shots from everywhere.“He’s got nothing to hang his head on.” Guy said of Edwards, calling him a “bad dude.”Guy added that it was a “performance for the ages by him, and by both teams.”After trailing for almost all of the second half, Purdue took the lead on a rare Edwards miss, as Nojel Eastern corralled the rebound and laid it in, giving the Boilermakers a 64-63 edge with 3:59 remaining.Virginia reclaimed the advantage, but Edwards banked home a 3-pointer to put Purdue up, 69-67, with 1:10 left. Purdue appeared to have the contest under control after Grady Eifert hauled in an offensive rebound with 19 seconds to play. The superb-shooting Cline was fouled with a chance to make it a two-possession game. But a miss kept Virginia alive, trailing by 70-67. Purdue Coach Matt Painter ordered his club to foul, putting Ty Jerome on the line for the Cavaliers with 5.9 seconds to play.What followed? Madness. After Jerome made the first free throw, the second clanked off the iron and bounded into the backcourt — where Kihei Clark chased it down for Virginia. Clark took two quick dribbles and then launched a rocket of a pass nearly 50 feet downcourt, where it was cradled by the junior forward Mamadi Diakite. And just before the clock hit 0.0, Diakite drained an 8-foot jumper to, unfathomably, square the contest at 70-70.“We had the ball in the guy’s hands that we wanted. Clark had the ball,” Painter said, adding, “With that being said, he made an unbelievable play to find Diakite.”On to overtime, and the game slowed down to Virginia’s preferred pace. Neither team gained separation, with the margin at less than 2 for much of the extra period. A layup by De’Andre Hunter put the Cavaliers ahead by 76-75, with 26 seconds to play.There was no doubt who would take the last shot for Purdue. It was Edwards. But the stifling defense of the Cavaliers owned the moment. And Edwards’s 3-point heave clanked harmlessly off the iron with eight seconds left.The crowd, predominantly filled with Purdue fans, fell into a hush. And Virginia, finishing with four free throws, silenced its doubters.