Arike Ogunbowale scored a career-high 34 points, Jessica Shepard added 24 points and 14 rebounds, and Notre Dame, the defending national champion, beat Texas A&M on Saturday in the round of 16 for a second straight year, 87-80.Ogunbowale scored 12 points in the final 6 minutes 45 seconds, helping the top-seeded Fighting Irish (33-3) advance to the round of 8 of the women’s N.C.A.A. tournament for the eighth time in nine years. They will play second-seeded Stanford or 11th-seeded Missouri State in the Chicago Region final on Monday.Ogunbowale, the Irish’s career scoring leader, surpassed her previous high of 32 points. Shepard dominated down low, and Notre Dame got a sweet repeat to go with its 12th straight win.Chennedy Carter led Texas A&M (26-8) with a season-high 35 points in another impressive N.C.A.A. performance. Carter, a sophomore guard, entered the game averaging just over 30 points in five career tournament games and left having connected again, nailing 7 of 12 3-pointers.Kayla Wells scored 18. But it was an all-too-familiar result against Notre Dame for the fourth-seeded Aggies.The Fighting Irish beat Texas A&M by 6 points last year during a championship run that ended with a thrilling comeback against Mississippi State for their second title. And the rematch was tight until the end.The game was tied at 69-69 with just under seven minutes remaining when Ogunbowale popped to the right wing for a 3-pointer and broke for a layup after picking off a pass by Carter. Jackie Young hit a turnaround shot in the lane that made it a 7-point game.Carter drove for a layup. But Ogunbowale pulled up for a 3-point play, hitting the free throw after being knocked to the floor and making it 79-71. Her twisting fast-break layup made it 83-74 with 54 seconds remaining. But Ogunbowale was called for a technical, resulting in two free throws by Wells.A layup by Ciera Johnson cut Notre Dame’s lead to 83-78 with 43 seconds left. But Ogunbowale and Young each hit two free throws, stretching the lead back to 9 before Wells scored for Texas A&M with eight seconds left.IOWA 79, NORTH CAROLINA ST. 61 Megan Gustafson had 27 points and 12 rebounds, leading Iowa past North Carolina State in the Greensboro, N.C., Region semifinals. Gustafson, a senior who averages a Division I-best 28 points per game and ranks second in rebounding, finished with her 33rd double-double, matching the N.C.A.A.’s single-season record. She made 10 of her 13 shots from the field. Hannah Stewart added 16 points and 10 rebounds.They helped the second-seeded Hawkeyes (29-6) earn their first appearance in the round of 8 since 1993, when the team, then led by Coach C. Vivian Stringer, rolled to the lone Final Four appearance in program history.Iowa will next play top-seeded Baylor, a 93-68 winner over fourth-seeded South Carolina. The winner of that game, on Monday night, will advance to the Final Four.Iowa shot 54 percent and took command by hitting eight straight shots during a Gustafson-led 20-8 run that came after N.C. State had cut its deficit to 5 midway through the third quarter on an Aislinn Konig layup. The Wolfpack went cold after Konig’s basket, missing nine of their next 10 shots.“I thought that was our chance to put some pressure on them,” N.C. State Coach Wes Moore said. “But it just wasn’t meant to be.”Alexis Sevillian bookended the Iowa burst with 3-pointers. The second of those gave the Hawkeyes their largest lead to that point, at 63-46 with eight minutes left.Seven of the Hawkeyes’ nine baskets during that run were assisted. Iowa ranks second in Division I with an average of 21.7 assists. The Hawkeyes had assists on 24 of their 31 total field goals.“We love to be able to just share the ball and get a great shot instead of a good shot,” Gustafson said. “We feed off each other’s energy, and that’s what kept us going.”Gustafson joined some elite company with her latest double-double. Oklahoma’s Courtney Paris set the record in 2006 and did it again a year later, and Natalie Butler of George Mason matched that mark a year ago. Gustafson has had double-doubles in all but two games this season.The freshman Elissa Cunane had 14 points and 11 rebounds, Kiara Leslie scored 16 points, and D. D. Rogers added 12 points for the third-seeded Wolfpack (28-6), who shot just 35 percent.One of the best seasons — and one of the most unlikely runs, after the loss of four players to season-ending injuries — in Wolfpack history came to an end at a familiar stage of the tournament. N.C. State reached the round of 16 for the 13th time in program history. Only once have the Wolfpack gone further — in 1998, the year of the program’s lone Final Four appearance.“I do believe that the program has gone up since I’ve been here,” said Rogers, a senior. She added, “People just stepped up and wanted to go as far as they could this year, and we made it happen.”BAYLOR 93, SOUTH CAROLINA 68 Baylor reached the round of 8 for the fifth time in six years with another dominant performance, leading by as many as 30 points in the Greensboro Region semifinals. DiDi Richards scored a career-high 25 points, and Lauren Cox added 17 points and 14 rebounds for the Bears, the No. 1 overall seed in the women’s tournament. The Bears shot 52 percent in winning their 26th straight game and blowing out South Carolina for a second time this season.Kalani Brown had 18 points and 10 rebounds, and Juicy Landrum and Chloe Jackson each finished with 12 points for the Bears (34-1). Behind the elite front line of the 6-foot-4 Cox and the 6-7 Brown, the Bears dominated both the lane and the glass. Baylor built a 54-30 rebounding advantage, held the Gamecocks to 2 second-chance points and outscored them by 30 in the lane.Te’a Cooper scored 17 points and Mikiah Herbert Harrigan added 16 for the fourth-seeded Gamecocks (23-10).