Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Seth Meyers and Stephen Colbert scoffed at the news that President Trump had donated a portion of his salary to the Department of Homeland Security. Each called the move hypocritical — but for different reasons.Colbert pointed out that Trump was simultaneously proposing to cut the department’s budget, and Meyers’s critique was even more straightforward.“His most recent proposal for wall funding would take $5 billion away from the Department of Homeland Security budget. So, Trump’s paycheck donation is like robbing a restaurant, then on your way out throwing a nickel in the tip jar. [impersonating Trump] ‘Here you go. Buy yourself something nice, like an alarm system.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT“President Trump yesterday tweeted a picture of a signed check that he wrote donating $100,000 of his annual salary to the Department of Homeland Security. Of course, if you want to give part of your salary to the government, you could just pay your taxes.” — SETH MEYERSC-Span celebrated its 40th birthday on Tuesday, and some of the late-night hosts seized the opportunity to tease the network for its nonstop coverage of political talks and procedural hearings.“I want to say congrats to C-Span for turning 40 years old today. That’s exciting. That means C-Span is only 40 more years away from being the average age of someone who watches C-Span.” — JIMMY FALLON“Today was the 40th anniversary of C-Span, and it looks like they’re having a huge party — just off camera.” — SETH MEYERS“According to Politico, the White House is expected to drop the word ‘acting’ from acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney’s title. And they’ll replace it with ‘soon-to-be-quitting.’” — SETH MEYERS“The N.C.A.A. tournament — this is a chance for college basketball fans to lose $10 as slowly as humanly possible.” — JIMMY KIMMEL“Bolsonaro is often called the Trump of the tropics. Which is also what Trump will be called when his climate policies turn Ohio into a rain forest.” — STEPHEN COLBERT, on Jair Bolsonaro, the Brazilian presidentConan O’Brien got a kick out of Tudder, a mobile app that’s being called “Tinder for cows.”Jimmy Kimmel tracked down the people featured in a video that recently went viral — in which a best man at a wedding faints and falls to the ground midceremony.Rob Lowe, the host of “Mental Samurai,” a new game show, will sit down with Kimmel on Wednesday.The position of artistic director is being filled all over the country by a newly diverse array of people, a study has found.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now