Samuel Joseph, 15, was just getting out of school on Feb. 22 when his older brother got into a fistfight with another young Brooklyn man. What brought them to blows remains unknown, and the confrontation did not last long.The altercation was of the sort that often leaves nothing but bruises and hurt pride. Instead, within a few hours, Mr. Joseph was dead, shot execution-style in front of his sister at their apartment in Flatbush. His brother’s opponent in the fight, Martial Amilcar, 20, was on the run.Mr. Amilcar was arrested on Monday night in Queens and questioned by Brooklyn detectives at the 70th Precinct station house. He was charged late Tuesday with murder and criminal possession of a firearm.On Wednesday, the police were still looking for Mr. Amilcar’s associate, who they said had waited outside Mr. Joseph’s apartment building.The police said that on Feb. 22 Mr. Amilcar showed up in the lobby of the Joseph family’s apartment building and shot Mr. Joseph in the face, head and chest. Earlier that day, Mr. Amilcar and a second man had been searching the neighborhood for Mr. Joseph’s older brother. The police did not say which of Mr. Joseph’s older brothers — he is one of eight children — was involved in the original fight.The gruesome killing of the teenager shocked the city and rattled Mr. Joseph’s neighborhood, where his family of immigrants from Haiti had settled about a decade ago. The boy was a sophomore at the High School for Youth and Community Development at Erasmus. He had been leaving his apartment to get something to eat when Mr. Amilcar confronted him in the lobby.Mr. Joseph was remembered by friends and business owners in the neighborhood as “a good kid” and a talented basketball player.The murder was a sobering reminder of the city’s violent start to 2019, driven by a spike of homicides in Brooklyn — 24 so far in 2019, 14 more murders than during the same period last year.On the day of the murder, the police said that a security camera recorded Mr. Amilcar and Mr. Joseph’s older brother getting into a fight around 3:45 p.m., though they declined to say where it took place.Two hours later, Mr. Amilcar, wearing a hood, was seen outside of Mr. Joseph’s apartment building on Flatbush Avenue. He approached Mr. Joseph’s sister and asked if the older brother with whom he had fought was home.Mr. Amilcar, who also lives in Flatbush, can then be seen on security camera footage entering the lobby of the family’s apartment building. He confronted Mr. Joseph there while his associate waited outside. In a matter of seconds, Mr. Amilcar pulled out a pistol and shot Mr. Joseph. Afterward, he was taken to a nearby hospital where he died.On Tuesday evening, a young woman who identified herself as Mr. Joseph’s sister said she expects more arrests to be made.“I’m hoping they get all of them and put them away somewhere,” the woman said while standing inside the hallway of the family’s building on Flatbush Avenue, a few steps from a memorial to her brother that was outside. She declined to give her name, citing concerns for the family’s safety.Monalisa Ferrari, a community liaison who is assisting with wake and funeral arrangements for Mr. Joseph and is serving as a family spokeswoman, said the victim’s mother, Raymonde Samuels, has been particularly hard-hit by her son’s death. Ms. Ferrari said the family took some solace from news of an arrest.“I would say they’re relieved,” Ms. Ferrari said, “because having a criminal like this on the loose is worrisome.”Chief William Aubry of the Detective Bureau said on Tuesday that it remained unclear whether Mr. Amilcar intended to kill Mr. Joseph or had mistaken him for his older brother.Murders across the city have spiked to 51 in the first two months of 2019 compared to 34 over the same period last year, a trend that has concerned officials in the department and at City Hall.On Monday, Mayor Bill de Blasio and police commissioner James P. O’Neill said at their monthly news conference on crime statistics that it was too early to tell if the increase was a fluke, or a harbinger of a new trend.