DENVER — The Denver Nuggets’ worst loss of the season was less than 48 hours old when Tim Connelly, the team’s president of basketball operations, found himself courtside before a game against the Chicago Bulls assessing some lessons of the defeat.“A loss is never a positive,” Connelly said, “but we have to be realistic about where we stand. We’ve done nothing, and that team has done everything several times over.”He was referring to the Golden State Warriors, a superstar collective that has demolished its share of opponents in recent years. But what the Warriors did to the Nuggets one night last week was particularly gruesome, in part because Denver had entered the game with a slim lead over Golden State in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference standings.But then, on Jan. 15, in front of a briefly enthusiastic crowd here, the Warriors scored 51 points in the first quarter and sailed to a 142-111 victory that sent a message to everyone on the opposing bench, inside the building and across the league: We are not going anywhere.It was, for one night at least, illustrative of the gulf that still exists between the Warriors and the rest of the N.B.A. While Golden State’s dominance had led many to despair, the Nuggets entered the game ahead in the standings and hopeful that they were bridging the gap. They came out of it understanding that there is still work to be done.“We got a little comfortable,” Nuggets forward Paul Millsap said. “It was a humbling experience for us.”Still, these are heady times for the Nuggets. They are a colorful crew led by Nikola Jokic, a 23-year-old center from Serbia and former second-round pick who facilitates the offense from the high post. In a league full of chiseled gods, Jokic has the dimensions of a melting iceberg. But at 7 feet and 250 pounds, he is a gifted passer and scorer, and he appears bound for his first All-Star Game.His background — unsung prospect, semi-overlooked — is representative of the roster as a whole. Just one player in the team’s regular rotation, the 21-year-old point guard Jamal Murray, was a top-10 lottery pick.Consider Torrey Craig, a 28-year-old forward who has become a full-time starter. Craig went undrafted out of South Carolina Upstate and was plying his trade for the Gold Coast Rollers of the Queensland Basketball League, a semipro circuit in Australia, before he signed a two-way deal with the Nuggets in 2017.“It makes us all dogs,” the shooting guard Malik Beasley said, “because we’ve been underrated our whole lives.”Millsap, 33 and a former second-round pick himself, sees similarities between the Nuggets and one of his former teams, the Atlanta Hawks, a team with little star power that still finished with the best record in the East in 2015.“Egoless guys,” Millsap said. “Guys who don’t care about getting the credit. Guys who go out there and play the game the right way, and I think that’s where these two teams are very similar. I do think this team is a lot more talented than that team. But that team used every inch of talent and every inch of ability to get things done.”Left unsaid: The Nuggets are not using every inch of their talent — not yet, anyway. In the jargon of the game, they have untapped potential, and this is understandable. The Nuggets are as inexperienced as they are precocious. Seven of the team’s top 11 players right now are 24 or younger, and that does not even include Michael Porter Jr., a 20-year-old forward and the 14th pick of the 2018 draft who is not expected to play this season after undergoing back surgery.Coach Michael Malone has consistently praised his players’ work ethic — effort, he said, is not a problem — but he does want them to be more diligent about their mental preparation.“Know who the hell you’re guarding,” Malone said, adding: “I think the guys on our roster — most teams probably have this issue, where they show up to the game, like, ‘Who are we playing tonight?’ And they haven’t done their work, which to me is like a cardinal sin. So we have to do a better job of understanding: Who am I playing? What are his tendencies? And how can I take those away?”In the locker room before the Bulls game, Malone reiterated how much work his staff puts into scouting reports before asking his players what they planned to offer that night in return. Jokic, Malone later recalled, told him he would be aggressive. Murray said he would play hard. As far as pregame chalk talks go, it was boilerplate stuff. But the conversation had added import given the events of the week.“This is part of our journey,” Malone said.Malone got a keener sense of that process from 2011 to 2013, as an assistant with the Warriors under Mark Jackson when Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson were young players learning how to be pros. The Warriors went 23-43 in a lockout-shortened season. But by the 2012-13 season, Curry and Thompson were forming winning habits. Malone recalled a seven-game road trip when the Warriors went 6-1, with their only loss coming against the Orlando Magic after the team spent an extra night in Miami (and perhaps that was no coincidence). But the trip was otherwise an unqualified success.“I think that’s when we, as a team and as an organization said, ‘Man, we have a chance to be pretty good,’ ” he said.The Nuggets have had moments like that this season — beating the Raptors in Toronto on Dec. 3 was a big deal — but they still have a lot of work ahead, Malone said.“We’re a young team that is trying to become a playoff team, and once you become a playoff team, you hope to become a championship team,” Malone said. “You can’t skip steps.”Since Malone was hired by the Nuggets in 2015, they have improved each season, from 33 wins in 2015-16, to 40 wins in 2016-17, to 46 wins last season, when they narrowly missed the playoffs. Malone signed a two-year extension over the summer, and the Nuggets are now on a pace to win 56 games. Their last playoff appearance came in 2013.No less an eminence than Kevin Durant, who, to be fair, joined the Warriors a year after they had won their first championship of the Curry/Thompson era, praised the Nuggets organization.“Continuity,” Durant said. “You don’t fire your coach after a losing season. You’re patient with him. You’re patient with your young players. You let them make mistakes, let them grow.”In the wake of Denver’s loss to the Warriors last week, Malone was pleased to see a renewed commitment to defense in wins over the Bulls and the Cleveland Cavaliers. It was already clear that the team’s loss to Golden State had been something of a formative experience.“It was probably the best thing that could have happened to us,” Millsap said.