The Knicks’ sudden trade sending Kristaps Porzingis, their franchise player, to the Dallas Mavericks last week has raised a swirl of questions about the team’s motivations.Good news: We have answers.Porzingis was abruptly dispatched to Dallas last Thursday, along with Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke, for guard Dennis Smith Jr., two future first-round picks and the sizable expiring contracts of DeAndre Jordan and Wes Matthews.Let’s dig into six of the biggest curiosities surrounding the departure of the Knicks’ beloved No. 6.Steve Mills, the Knicks’ president, cited worries that Porzingis was growing detached from the organization as a key factor in the team’s decision to seek out trades for the best big man it has seen since Patrick Ewing.It turns out that the Knicks spent much of January quietly canvassing the league for potential Porzingis deals, according to a person familiar with the talks who was not authorized to discuss them publicly. They tried — unsuccessfully — to trade for untouchables such as Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox.But the Knicks knew all along that the Mavericks had the wherewithal to meet many of their trade objectives and, just as crucially, that Dallas was generally unfazed by the torn anterior cruciate ligament Porzingis suffered last February.In Smith, Dallas had a recent top-10 pick to offer. The Mavericks also proved willing to give up two future first-round draft picks in a Porzingis deal while absorbing the contracts of Hardaway and Lee. The Knicks were able to shed both of those deals because Dallas had two huge expiring contracts to send back (Jordan and Matthews) and had long been fond of Hardaway despite his defensive deficiencies.Perhaps you are a Smith skeptic. Or just a Knicks skeptic. Those are both understandable positions. But a trade that returns three quality assets and will create the kind of salary-cap space this summer that the Knicks must have to chase Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving in free agency is no salary dump.It is a gamble, true, but it is also an undeniable haul.The Mavericks’ interest in Porzingis has been an open secret to the Knicks for years. One Mavericks official estimated that Dallas approached the Knicks “about a hundred times” before the team ever showed any willingness to discuss trading him.The Knicks, for their part, had expressed interest in Smith all season. The teams, according to two people with knowledge of their talks, also had been discussing a Hardaway-for-Matthews trade for weeks before Jan. 28, which both sides pinpoint as the first date the Knicks were open to discussing a Porzingis blockbuster.The parties, as a result, did not need long to build a trade framework.It certainly did not hurt that the Mavericks made their lone Madison Square Garden appearance of the season two nights later. Knicks General Manager Scott Perry and his Mavericks counterpart, Donnie Nelson, met before the game in a Garden hallway before taking their huddle behind closed doors and summoning Mills.By night’s end, Smith had registered a triple-double in a resounding Dallas victory and the Mavericks were offering to seal the Porzingis deal by handshake, since Mark Cuban, the Dallas owner, was in the building. The Knicks, however, asked for more time.The reason? Porzingis and his brother Janis, the player’s agent, had requested a Thursday morning meeting.When asked at a Monday news conference to address his reported desire to be traded, Porzingis passed.“I would rather just focus on what’s ahead of me than looking back,” Porzingis said.A person with knowledge of the meeting, however, said it was requested by the Porzingis brothers — after they had canceled a similar meeting earlier in January — and that it lasted less than five minutes. Later in the day, according to the person, Janis Porzingis gave the Knicks a list of four teams he and Kristaps had deemed acceptable trade destinations.The Nets and the Los Angeles Clippers were among those four teams, but Dallas was not. The Knicks, meanwhile, were told Porzingis was prepared to leave the team and continue his knee rehabilitation in Spain if he was not moved by Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline.It was not long after receiving the four-team list that the Knicks notified the Mavericks they would do the deal.The Knicks were convinced that no team besides Dallas would take the Hardaway and Lee contracts and package a player of Smith’s caliber with first-round draft picks.The Knicks also were fearful that letting the Dallas offer linger, or engaging other teams in the week leading up to the trade deadline, would enable the Porzingis camp to scare off the Mavericks or other potential suitors by threatening to sign long-term only with teams like the Nets or the Clippers.In a radio interview Monday with 105.3 FM in Dallas, Cuban said, “Shopping a deal is a lot more complicated than it sounds.”Risky as it would be given his uncertain health, Porzingis has the option to play next season for a mere $4.5 million and become an unrestricted free agent in July 2020. The Knicks’ mounting fears that he would exercise that option, or say he was only willing to sign a one-year deal with a player option in Year 2, are largely what convinced team officials they had to pursue trades.But the Mavericks are one of those dice-rolling teams, like Boston, Houston and most recently Oklahoma City when it traded for Paul George, that bet on themselves in these situations. Dallas is already expressing confidence it can get Porzingis’s signature on a five-year, $158 million contract this summer.Porzingis has pre-existing relationships with Dirk Nowitzki and Luka Doncic, the Mavericks’ rising star from Slovenia. And neither Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle nor Cuban has been bashful about comparing a Doncic/Porzingis partnership to the Nowitzki/Steve Nash duo that was busted up after just six seasons. Nash was allowed to sign with Phoenix in July 2004, after which both Nowitzki and Nash won most valuable player honors separately.“It was my mistake to not keep Dirk and Steve together longer,” Cuban said Monday night. “I won’t make the same mistake with Luka and K.P.”It is simply not possible to answer this today. Not without knowing, for starters, how the Knicks will fare in free agency — and how Porzingis will bounce back from his knee injury.But I can tell you this: In my discussions with rival team executives, I have heard from many more who praise the trade than those who question how much the Knicks received in return.Also: The threat of the Knicks persuading Durant to leave one of the most dominant teams in league history, based on the latest vibes emanating from the Bay Area, has never felt more real to the Warriors themselves.The Knicks have received considerable criticism for smearing Porzingis on his way out. And let’s face it: Believe-it-when-I-see-it scoffing at the notion that the game’s biggest names would be willing to play for the Knicks, when they are still owned and operated by James Dolan, is fully expected given how the last two decades have gone since the Knicks’ trip to the N.B.A. finals in 1999.Yet there is far more to like than dislike about the deal, even if Porzingis becomes everything Dallas dreams he can be. The Knicks move forward with massive financial flexibility and a young core of Smith, Kevin Knox, Allonzo Trier and Frank Ntilikina, as well as seven first-round picks over the next five years — chips they can either build around or offer in trades for someone starry like Anthony Davis.Processing all that should bring Knicks-loving New Yorkers some winter warmth.