[Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Thursday. Happy Valentine’s Day.  Former Mayor Michael Bloomberg turns 77.Weather: Cold and windy in the morning, warming to the mid-40s. Tomorrow, even warmer, but could be wet.Alternate-side parking: In effect until Monday (Presidents’ Day).Forty-two gunshots — all fired by the New York City police — rang out Tuesday night outside a cellphone store in Queens. The fusillade, which lasted only 11 seconds, left Detective Brian Simonsen dead. His partner, Sgt. Matthew Gorman, was struck in the thigh.The men had been responding to a report of an armed robbery. As they retreated from the store, they were shot by their fellow officers.Last night, the authorities were still trying to piece together exactly what happened.Police Commissioner James P. O’Neill called the incident an “absolutely tragic case of friendly fire.” Chief of Department Terence A. Monahan said, “This is the worst thing that we go through as a department.”New York City police officers are rarely killed by friendly fire — the last such incident occurred in 2009. These deaths are rare, in part, because of the extensive training the police undergo, retired police officials said.“The paradox of policing is that you’re always preparing for this, but you’re never ready for it,” said Eugene O’Donnell, a retired New York police officer who teaches at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan.[Read our latest story about the shooting.]Joseph L. Giacalone, a retired New York police sergeant, recalled stumbling upon a robbery in the Bronx in 1994. Men with machine guns fired on him and his partner, he said.“Your instinct to stay alive takes over,” Mr. Giacalone said, adding that “even through all that is going on, you’re thinking about the person you’re with, because you want to make sure he or she comes out of this O.K. also.”Michael D. Sapraicone, a retired police detective, called Tuesday night’s incident “shoot by committee.” Officers “heard a shot fired, and everybody starts shooting,” he said.As for Detective Simonsen, Mr. O’Donnell called his entering the cellphone store a heroic act, because a detective’s job is “to do investigations,” not be a first responder.But, he said, “if they’re there, there’s no doubt their instinct is going to be to spring into action.”The Times’s Emma G. Fitzsimmons reports:The partial closure of the L train is set to begin the weekend of April 27, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said yesterday.The biggest news:• L train riders will start seeing fewer trains after 8 p.m. on weeknights. Starting at 10 p.m., trains will run every 20 minutes.• Trains will run every 20 minutes on weekends.• To prevent overcrowding, the First and Third Avenue stations in Manhattan could become exit-only on weekends.Yes, that’s only three trains per hour — barring any unexpected meltdown — during the slow periods. If riders don’t want to wait, subway officials said, their best option would be to switch to a J, M or Z train, or another line.Oh, and the G train is not going to get longer, as some had hoped.War on incumbents: Inspired by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, activists are expected to challenge Democratic members of Congress in and around New York City.Tax the rich: That’s what some millionaires want Governor Cuomo to do.Apology before life sentence: The white supremacist James Harris Jackson apologized for fatally stabbing a black man two years ago in Manhattan.“Love Bus”: New Yorkers in long-distance relationships rely on high-tech, low-cost transportation services.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Ban on plastic utensils: Councilman Rafael Espinal introduced legislation yesterday. [Eater New York]Second-richest town in America: It is Scarsdale. First place is in Silicon Valley. [Digg]Hip-hop museum: It is expected to break ground in the Bronx in December. [WPIX]“Leonard Bernstein’s Black America”: A history of the famed composer’s fight for racial justice. [WQXR]Take your Valentine to Flux Factory’s pop-up roller rink in Long Island City. 6 to 11 p.m. [Free; skate rental by donation]Watch the early aughts classic “Love and Basketball” at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. 4:15 and 9:30 p.m. [$15]A neo-burlesque show at Harlem Stage features spoken word, song and dance. 7:30 p.m. [$25]Tour the section of Central Park once known as Seneca Village, one of New York’s first black settlements. 11 a.m. [$15]A Valentine’s Day edition of “Mortified,” the comedy show where adults share embarrassing journals, letters and more from their youth, at Littlefield in Gowanus. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. [$12]— Elisha BrownEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Whether they’re tears of joy, rivers of sadness or droplets of love lost, it’s clear that today of all days we need places where we can let our emotions out.So, in the name of service journalism, Curbed New York updated its “best places in the city for a good sob session.”They include, in no particular order:• The Staten Island Ferry: “There’s something oddly romantic about weeping quietly to yourself on a boat as it glides across New York Harbor.”• The West Village: “There are so many small, hidden side streets.”• Strand Book Store: Hold any book open in front of your face as you sob.• Chelsea Piers: “Grab a bench, gaze out onto the water and let your emotions run free.”• The Bryant Park bathrooms: They’re gorgeous. And they have tissues.Of course, no list would be complete without a mention of the Ikea in Brooklyn. Who hasn’t gone there, with or without a loved one, and shed a tear at the existential questions raised by Scandinavian-designed furniture and New York City apartment sizes?It’s Valentine’s Day — love yourself.Dear Diary:In spring 2009, I was working throughout Chinatown and the Lower East Side as a home-health physical therapist. I did not have an office where I could to write up my notes, use a clean restroom or have lunch.On one particularly exhausting day, I started out at a public housing complex on Rutgers Street before stopping at a tenement on the Bowery and then a beautiful prewar apartment in SoHo.By then, it was lunchtime. I didn’t want to eat alone. Although I saw people every day, and was constantly navigating crowds on the streets, I felt very lonely in the job.I made my way to Henry Street. There, in a corner building, lived two patients of my co-workers. This older couple also happened to be my beloved grandparents. They had lived in Chinatown for more than 25 years.Somehow, it seemed, they had sensed that I would visit that day. They had tea, herbal soup, fried eggs, steam riced and Chinese sausages and vegetables ready and waiting when I arrived.To this day, it’s still the best work lunch I’ve ever had.— Kat LieuNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.