The Utah Jazz permanently banned a fan who they said aggressively taunted Russell Westbrook, one of the N.B.A.’s premier players, during a game Monday night in an incident that has prompted discussions about fan racism and player security.Westbrook, the star guard of the Oklahoma City Thunder, said the fan directed “disrespectful” and “racial” comments toward him. “A young man and his wife in the stands told me to get down on my knees ‘like you used to,’ ” Westbrook said.In a video posted on Twitter by a reporter for The Deseret News, Westbrook, who is black, can be seen using expletives to say that he will beat up the fan, who appears to be white, and extends the threat to include the man’s wife. The video is about 30 seconds long and does not show the full encounter or what prompted Westbrook, a guard for the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder, to react to the fan.After the game, Westbrook told reporters that the man had said “disrespectful things” about him and his family that he thought were “racial” and suggested that the video posted online lacked important context.He acknowledged that he had threatened to beat up the fan’s wife but said he had “never put his hand on a woman” and “never will.” He also stood by his actions, saying, “If I had to do it over again, I would say the same exact thing.”On Tuesday afternoon, the N.B.A. announced that it had fined Westbrook $25,000 “for directing profanity and threatening language to a fan.” The announcement came shortly after the Jazz, in a statement, said the fan would be permanently banned from all events at Vivint Smart Home Arena because of “excessive and derogatory verbal abuse directed at a player.” The team said it had conducted an investigation that included reviews of video and eyewitness accounts.The confrontation between Westbrook and the Jazz fan — who has presented a starkly different description of the episode — is the latest in a series of incidents that spotlight how fans treat athletes and the sometimes explosive consequences that can result, issues that both Westbrook and the N.B.A. have frequently been at the center of.“There’s no protection for the players,” Westbrook said in his postgame comments, which were transcribed by a reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune and later provided to The New York Times by the Thunder, who otherwise didn’t comment on the incident. “I think there are a lot of great fans who like to come to the game and enjoy the game. And then there are people that come to the game to say disrespectful things about me, my family.”Westbrook’s teammates backed his account of the interaction. Raymond Felton told reporters that he had overheard the comments made by the fan and said they were “totally disrespectful.” Patrick Patterson appeared to confirm Westbrook’s account of events on Twitter, and wrote that “fans are protected in every way possible but not us.”Multiple news outlets identified the Jazz fan as Shane Keisel. Keisel told ESPN that he did not swear at Westbrook or otherwise say anything inappropriate, and that he believed they were having fun. In an interview with local television station KSL, Keisel said Westbrook had been using profanity and “acting a fool,” which fans responded to by heckling him.Keisel said he saw Westbrook’s knees wrapped in towels, so he told him to “sit down and ice your knees, bro.” Westbrook responded that the wraps were for heat, Keisel said, adding that he then told Westbrook, “Well, you’re going to need it.” Keiser said the woman sitting next to him, who ESPN identified as his wife, Jennifer Huff, did not say anything to Westbrook and had her hands in her lap.Attempts to reach Keisel on Tuesday were unsuccessful.Keisel was sitting in the third row on the baseline, near the Thunder bench. Unlike in most other sports, in basketball fans can sit just a few feet away from players. This can lead to good-natured and spirited exchanges — like the back-and-forth heckling between Spike Lee and Reggie Miller in the 1990s — but also to large problems.Most infamous is what is known as The Malice at the Palace in 2004. After a brawl between the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit, a fan threw a drink at Ron Artest, a Pacers forward at the time who has since changed his name to Metta World Peace. Artest charged into the stands, followed closely by teammate Stephen Jackson, and threw a punch at a fan. Artest was suspended for 86 games, and five players eventually pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault charges.Since the incident, the N.B.A. has taken numerous steps to prevent violence, especially between players and fans. Players are now automatically suspended if they leave the bench during an on-court altercation, and fans whose unacceptable conduct is overheard by or reported to security are issued cards warning them that they can be ejected from the arena.In a statement after the game, the Jazz said arena security issued several warning cards to fans during the game.Westbrook has had a number of run-ins with fans in the past, including in Salt Lake City. During last year’s playoffs, Westbrook twice got into it with fans while leaving the court. The first time he stepped toward and yelled at a fan that was leaning over the railing talking to him; the second time Westbrook swiped at a phone that a fan had pushed toward his face.“Here in Utah, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players here with these fans,” Westbrook said after that game. Afterward, Jazz officials said that their arena security was adequate, and updated their in-arena video message about fan behavior.Last month in Denver, a child sitting in the front row gave Westbrook a small shove as he landed out of bounds. Westbrook bent over and calmly spoke to a man nearby and the child, patting him on the knee and shaking his hand before returning to the game. “I told his dad, ‘Be careful, man. You can’t have your son just hitting random people,’ ” Westbrook said after that game.Westbrook also pushed a fan who confronted him on the court after a game in Denver last year, and was fined $25,000 for shouting a vulgarity at a Dallas Mavericks fan in 2016.