SEATTLE — The University of Washington men’s basketball coach threw a punch. Then another.Mike Hopkins wasn’t making contact. He was shadow boxing. Typically multitasking, he was also telling a hyperkinetic story.It was about his days as a boxer in the early 1990s. But it was also about why Washington had lost so painfully to Oregon days earlier in its final regular-season game. Even his story was doing two things at once.The story Hopkins was telling took place during his undergraduate days at Syracuse, when he played guard for the longtime coach Jim Boeheim, whom he ended up serving as an assistant for 22 seasons. For a while back then, Hopkins also trained in the sweet science.“I did a little boxing in my junior year,” he said, bouncing on his toes. He had trained for weeks before finally entering the ring against a muscular opponent who was more than ready to fight.Hopkins threw an excited punch into the air. “So I’m jabbing, jabbing, doing exactly what I’d been trained to do,” he said, “when all of a sudden, bam! My opponent crushes me.”Hopkins pointed to his gut and mimed falling backward. “And I just lost it,” he said. “It took me off my game. Suddenly I’m trying to just kill the guy.”He mimicked the wild haymakers he threw in response.“I even tried to kick him!”He said he was telling this story because that fight was just like the Oregon game. “We got hit fast,” he said. “We had adversity. Things weren’t going right. Bam, we got taken out of our game! And as much as the coaches tried to get the team back to who we are and what we need to do, sometimes you are going to lose that composure. Now, going forward this season, we have to get it back.”Hopkins is 49, too old to throw haymakers. Instead, he has spent two seasons leading the Huskies to a complete turnaround.Washington was 9-22 and lost 16 conference games in 2016-17. It soured fans and got the longtime coach Lorenzo Romar fired. Hopkins took over the team, and last week was named Pacific-12 coach of the year for the second time in his two seasons.Washington still gets knocked down — it advanced to the Pac-12 tournament final last weekend only to lose to Oregon by 20 points — but, like its coach, it has learned how to get up. The Pac-12 is also famously weak this year, which explains why Washington is a No. 9 seed and also a lowly 51st in the widely followed kenpom.com rankings.Hopkins has brought a rarefied energy to Seattle. “Crazy and unpredictable,” one of his players described him, admiringly. Hopkins, 6-foot-4 and still fit, is known to run drills alongside his players. He once broke his nose doing it.Along with unbridled enthusiasm, he has passed along everything he learned in nearly three decades at Syracuse: all the stories and all the lessons — even the pugilistic ones. He is teaching Washington from the textbook of championship basketball he read at Boeheim’s elbow.But the success has come with an aching question: When Boeheim, 74, is ready to step down, will Hopkins return to upstate New York?The answer is anyone’s guess.Hopkins calls Boeheim his mentor, but the connection is deeper than that. He describes their bond as one between a wise father and an eager-to-please son. It began 30 years ago, when Hopkins left Southern California to play at Syracuse, unheralded and overlooked compared with his blue-chip teammates.Boeheim has said he thought Hopkins might never be more than a role player. Hopkins instead blossomed into a hustling starter who was called the human bruise for his will to sacrifice his body on defense and dive for loose balls. He became one of Boeheim’s favorites.Not long after graduating in 1993, Hopkins returned to Syracuse to try coaching. The years turned. Hopkins became Boeheim’s top assistant and ace recruiter. He helped reel in a significant chunk of Syracuse’s 2003 national championship team.Then came 2015. The Orange self-imposed a postseason ban in response to an N.C.A.A. investigation. Boeheim was under fire. Syracuse named Hopkins as head coach designate. The plan was straightforward: Boeheim would retire after the 2017-18 season. Hopkins would take over.But Boeheim never seemed ready to follow the plan. (A Syracuse spokesman said Boeheim declined to be interviewed for this article.) And Hopkins is so close to Boeheim that he would not have been comfortable as head coach had Boeheim been pushed out.Boeheim is still at Syracuse, with no end to his career in sight. He is even back in the N.C.A.A. tournament again.But as Hopkins approached 50, he knew that he had to look elsewhere if he was to fulfill his dream of coaching a team of his own.One possibility was Washington. When its athletic director, Jennifer Cohen, flew to Syracuse to interview him, she got a jolt of his patented energy. “Right there, as we’re meeting,” she said, “he’s talking about his vision for what he can do, and he’s so excited that he drops down to the ground and starts doing push-ups.“Let’s just put it this way: It was something I’d never seen before in that setting. But it was also perfect. It showed the hunger he has, the edge, the energy.”Hopkins took over the Huskies in March 2017, without an exploratory visit to the campus. It just felt right, he said, “almost at a spiritual level.” He had deep Seattle roots: His mother was born in the area; his father grew up a mile from campus and attended Washington; cousins lived nearby. Even his favorite band, Pearl Jam, hails from Seattle.In their first season under Hopkins, the Huskies discovered cohesion — particularly as they unfurled a Syracuse-inspired zone defense — and because his excitement is contagious. Fans began returning. Seattle started buzzing about college basketball in a way that it hadn’t in years.Last season, the Huskies finished 21-13 and made it to the second round of the National Invitation Tournament. This season, feasting on the many struggling teams in the Pac-12, Washington (26-8) has been even better.Hopkins’s team won the conference’s regular season handily. Matisse Thybulle, a lithe senior guard, broke Gary Payton’s conference record for career steals and was named the Pac-12 defensive player of the year. Jaylen Nowell, a sophomore guard, led the team in scoring and got the nod as Pac-12 player of the year.“This is the new season,” Hopkins said, speaking of the conference tournament and then the N.C.A.A. tournament, which the Huskies will open with a game against Utah State on Friday. There are always “upsets, and so much drama and competition,” he said, adding: “We want to play good basketball, that’s the bottom line. We’ve got a really good team that for a long period of time has been playing great, and we need to get back to that.”Over dinner on a recent evening at the seafood restaurant where Hopkins hosts a Huskies basketball radio show, he spoke about his new job and his old one — and about Boeheim.Hopkins said they don’t talk much during the season: They don’t need to, not as close as they are. Hopkins said he knows what Boeheim is thinking the way a son knows his father’s thoughts.Does Boeheim watch the Huskies play?“I know he does,” Hopkins said. “I know it, I know it, I know it, I know it. I know he watches, and I know what he is saying.”Is he still driven to make Boeheim proud?He nodded. Yes, exactly. “Syracuse raised me,” he said. “It’s as simple as that. There’s no getting around it.”He also knows that when Boeheim finishes his reign, speculation will increase that Hopkins will bolt for Syracuse — or maybe sooner, to another high-profile coaching job.Hopkins put down a taco and named some coaches he admires. Boeheim, of course, at Syracuse for 42 years. Mike Krzyzewski, at Duke for 39 years. (Hopkins was a Krzyzewski assistant on Team U.S.A.’s Olympic gold medal teams in 2012 and 2016.) Mark Few, at Gonzaga, now for 20 years.Each took a foundering program, built it to prominence and stayed for the long haul. Hopkins vowed to do the same thing in Seattle. He hopes to make his first national splash this month in the N.C.A.A. tournament. Next year’s recruiting class looks to be one of Washington’s best.“For me, I think if there is something that I like, I stick with it,” he said. “If I like some item of clothing, I might buy two or three, and I stick with it. If I like something at a restaurant, I come back and order it again. That’s how I’m built. I would say, ‘Never say never,’ but when I came to Washington, I came to create my own legacy. That’s what is important to me.“Build something special, with all of your thoughts and all of your dreams, and that’s what we’re doing right now.”