The favorites have advanced to the round of 16 of the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament, joined by a few surprises, namely 11th-seeded Missouri State, the only remaining double-digit seed. U.C.L.A. and South Dakota State, who were seeded sixth, also pulled off unexpected wins, beating Maryland and Syracuse on their home courts. It’s South Dakota State’s first trip to this round, which begins Friday.“It’s a great, great, great day to be a Jackrabbit,” Coach Aaron Johnston said.Isn’t it always?Baylor’s Lady Bears are the No. 1 overall seed in the tournament; expect their 25-game winning streak to continue as they march toward their first title since 2012. Baylor defeated South Carolina this season by 25 points on the road, and has wins over four teams in the round of 16: UConn, South Carolina, Arizona State and South Dakota State. A battle of the bigs featuring Baylor’s 6-foot-7 center, Kalani Brown, and Iowa’s 6-5 center, Megan Gustafson, awaits if Baylor and Iowa advance.North Carolina State’s overachieving run is likely to come to an end against the surging Hawkeyes. The Wolfpack have been without four players who sustained season-ending injuries; they used only six players during crucial stretches of their second-round game against Kentucky.Now N.C. State faces its biggest challenge, against Gustafson, who dominated the first two rounds, combining for 54 points and 35 rebounds.With depth and a veteran roster, much is expected from the Irish. Notre Dame lost only one key contributor from last year’s national championship team. After hitting two buzzer-beaters in last year’s Final Four, the Notre Dame senior guard Arike Ogunbowale remains a focal point. In the first two rounds, the junior Jackie Young, the only Irish starter who is not a senior or a graduate student, has played like Notre Dame’s most valuable player.Texas A&M’s 73-year-old coach, Gary Blair, who has taken the Aggies to the round of 16 seven times and to a national title in 2011, said his team was being overlooked. “I’m tired of people second-guessing this team,” he said. “I’m tired of people trying to figure out when I’m going to retire.”The Pac-12 had five of its six tournament teams advance to the round of 16, the most of any conference; Stanford is joined by Oregon State, U.C.L.A., Oregon and Arizona State. Missouri State has made a surprising run, but the program and its coaches have been here before. In 2001, Jackie Stiles led Missouri State, then named Southwest Missouri State, to the Final Four and become the career leading scorer in N.C.A.A. women’s basketball — a record that stood until 2017. Stiles is an assistant coach at her alma mater, under Kellie Harper, who won three national championships as a point guard under Pat Summitt at Tennessee.The showcase for the tournament’s most electrifying player, Louisville guard Asia Durr, continues. A senior, she hopes to lead Louisville to its first national title with her crossover and fadeaway flair. With a win against Oregon State on Friday, the Cardinals could face UConn on Sunday; Louisville defeated the Huskies in January.UConn reached the region semifinals for the 26th consecutive year, but it did not come easy.In the second round, the Huskies’ 12-point win against Buffalo, which rallied from a 24-point deficit, was UConn’s closest game in the second round since a 2-point victory over Xavier in 1999.U.C.L.A.’s fast-paced attack and dominant offensive rebounding will challenge the Huskies. The Bruins will try to do something the program has never done — beat UConn. The Huskies have won all five meetings. But the Bruins aren’t intimidated. “A lot of teams lose to UConn before they even start,” U.C.L.A. Coach Cori Close said. “The reality is we have a lot of confidence in what we have built and what we’ve earned.”It has been a stellar year for bigs, and three of the finalists for the Lisa Leslie Award, given to the best center in the country, are still playing: Baylor’s Brown, Iowa’s Gustafson and Mississippi State’s 6-7 Teaira McCowan. McCowan comes into the round of 16 off a 30-point, 11-rebound performance against Clemson. Arizona State survived a tough test against Miami in Coral Gables, Fla., to advance.No one in college basketball has mastered the triple-double the way Oregon’s Sabrina Ionescu has. In the Ducks’ second-round win against Indiana, Ionescu scored a game-high 29 points, grabbed 10 rebounds and handed out 12 assists to break her own N.C.A.A. record with the 18th triple-double of her career. With her team holding a comfortable lead over the Hoosiers, Ionescu said she missed a late 3-pointer on purpose so she could get the rebound for her eighth triple-double of the season. As great as it may be to be a Jackrabbit, South Dakota State faces a tough environment against Oregon in Portland.