Jennifer Sara Citak and Gabriel Joseph Gershowitz are to be married Feb. 17 at Montammy Golf Club in Alpine, N.J. Rabbi Shaul Robinson is to officiate.
The bride and groom graduated from George Washington University, each summa cum laude. He also received a master’s degree in public policy summa cum laude from the school.
The bride, 29, will take her husband’s name. She is a designer, principal and the fourth generation to work in her family’s business Robert Fabrikant, a jeweler in New York, of which her mother, Shari Fabrikant Citak, is the principal owner. The bride received a master’s degree in international relations from the London School of Economics.
She is the daughter of Mrs. Citak and Dr. Kenneth A. Citak of New York. The bride’s father is a neurologist and partner in the Neurology Group of Bergen County and the director of the neurosciences department at the Valley Hospital, both in Ridgewood, N.J. He is on the boards of the Brown University Club in New York, and Temple Emanu-El of Closter, N.J.
The groom, 36, is of counsel at Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York. He received a law degree from Columbia. He is on the young professional’s board of the America-Israel Friendship League in New York.
He is a son of Tova Cavell Gershowitz of Baltimore, and the late Michael V. Gershowitz. Until 2008, the groom’s mother worked part time teaching mixed media studio classes and leading gallery tours for elementary and junior high students in the education department at the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa. His father was an assistant professor of public administration at the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Rutgers University in Newark, and the director and the founder of the Writing Center there.
The couple met in 2016 at a charity brunch in New York, but a few months later after meeting again at a party, they became friends and early morning workout buddies at an Equinox gym near their offices in Midtown Manhattan. In June 2017, over coffee before heading to the gym, they decided to become romantically involved, and after a 24-hour holding period had their first kiss before their next workout.
