LONDON — Would you like to experience the stomach-churning environment of a fighter jet cockpit, be pushed to the limits of physical endurance as a member of a commando force or try your luck in a round of golf against the top-ranked Dustin Johnson? If so, you might have to buy a new watch.
Just as retailers and marketers have found that experiences, rather than material goods, are attracting the all-important millennial dollar, an increasing number of dial names are trying to draw new buyers and to maintain brand loyalty with a growing array of special offerings, some of which are more extreme than others.
At the gentler end of the scale, Zenith is celebrating the 50th anniversary of its El Primero chronograph this year by offering 50 people the opportunity to pay 50,000 Swiss francs ($50,055) for three watches, a miniature workbench, a set of tools and an uncased movement — and an invitation to visit the house factory in Le Locle, Switzerland, to stamp their names on a kind of wall of fame recording their purchases.
The chance to play golf with Mr. Johnson is to be offered to the top bidder for a Hublot Big Bang Unico at an auction before a “Night of Champions” gala dinner staged by the World Boxing Council on May 3 in Las Vegas.
Four other Hublots are also to be sold that night, to raise money for the José Sulaimán Boxers’ Fund, with the successful bidders receiving tickets to the dinner and experiences like taking a boxing lesson, touring the Ferrari factory and leaving with a race suit worn by a Formula One driver, meeting the Olympic runner Usain Bolt, and spending an evening at the Girl Collection nightclub in Las Vegas, complete with a $10,000 bar tab. The minimum bids for the watches range from $30,000 to $75,000.
Among the first watch brands to introduce the concept of experiences for customers was Breitling.
Since the early 2000s, it has regularly invited its V.I.P. owners to immerse themselves in the world of aviation, a field that the brand has been linked with for a century.
Buyers of the RAF100 Limited Edition Chronograph produced to mark the 2018 centenary of the Royal Air Force, for example, were offered the chance to fly in the rear seats of the Breitling Jet Team’s seven Aero L-39C Albatros aircraft as they perform in close formation at speeds as high as 435 miles per hour.
Bremont, another aviation-based brand, has given its buyers less nerve-racking flights: in its French Broussard wartime personnel aircraft, called “the Bremont Bus.”
It also has flown customers over Manhattan in a seaplane owned by one of its investors, given high-speed rides on an America’s Cup catamaran during its partnership with Oracle Team USA and staged track days at major British race circuits through its affiliation with Jaguar.
“We have always seen ourselves as a storytelling brand, and creating engaging experiences for our customers is very much part of that,” said Nick English, a co-founder of the British watch house. “Such experiences tend to be memorable, and offer a great way of talking to an end consumer — they are ‘living the brand,’ so to speak — and we can appeal to them through their own interests.”
A similar philosophy was adopted by the low-volume, high-end brand Roger Dubuis when it signed a deal with Pirelli in 2016 to produce watches fitted with straps made from rubber salvaged from the tires of grand prix-winning racecars.
Eight examples of the range-topping Excalibur Double Flying Tourbillon Pirelli were made, each priced at $318,000. Buyers were whisked to the Formula One circuit of their choice, anywhere in the world, where they received their watches and enjoyed a behind-the-scenes grand prix experience.
“The idea proved so popular that we have since created a department of three full-time staff whose job is to conceive entirely bespoke experiences for our top customers,” said Dorothée Henrio, the brand’s international marketing director.
In February, she added, “a small group of Roger Dubuis owners was picked up by executive jet and taken to spend the night in a private chateau in the Champagne region of France. The following morning, we flew them to Lamborghini in Bologna, where they were given a very special tour of the factory before being taken to the Mugello racetrack for private instruction in a range of Lamborghini cars.”
Ms. Henrio said the responses had been positive.
“Feedback from our customers, both male and female, shows that many of them want more than just a product,” she said. “While they enjoy the feeling of being part of the Roger Dubuis ‘tribe,’ they want to live the lifestyle that it represents. And that is not just about looking at a watch, but about being involved in some serious, adrenaline-fueled activities.”
The idea of enticing buyers with more than just a watch was introduced to Roger Dubuis by Jean-Marc Pontroué, its former chief executive. A year ago, he took the reins at the Italian-born, Swiss-made Panerai brand — where he is taking the experience format to a new level.
At the Salon International de la Haute Horlogerie watch show in January in Geneva, Mr. Pontroué unveiled a trio of limited-edition watches that not only looked different from the standard models on which they were based but also were several times more expensive because they came with some remarkable extras.
(All three collections sold out at the fair, and half of the buyers were new to Panerai, he said.)
Based on pieces from the brand’s Submersible range, the watches comprised the Guillaume Néry edition (15 models, at 38,900 euros each, or about $44,000); the Mike Horn edition (19 at €39,900) and the Marina Militare Carbotech edition (33 at €39,900).
Buyers of the Néry edition were invited to test their new watches on a whale watching and diving expedition off the island of Moorea in French Polynesia, accompanied by Mr. Néry, a champion free diver.
Those who went for Mr. Horn’s version — which had a strap made from recycled plastic bottles — were asked to meet the polar explorer and conservationist in the Arctic, while the Carbotech buyers were invited to take part in maneuvers with Comsubin, the Italian Navy’s diving and commando group.
“The activities are all linked to the sea to reflect Panerai’s history as a maker of diving watches,” Mr. Pontroué said.
“We have many further experience ideas in the pipeline,” he added, “and intend to announce three per year for the foreseeable future.”
It is clear that the events heighten buyers’ attraction to Panerai, Mr. Pontroué said. “These days, buying a luxury item needs to be as much about creating a milestone as owning an object.
“I really believe other brands will follow our lead in selling watches and experiences as similarly special packages.”
