FRONT PAGE
An article on Monday about the relationship between President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu misstated the surname and position of a journalist at The Forward. She is Batya Ungar-Sargon, not Ungar-Garson, and she is The Forward’s opinion editor, not a columnist.
•
An article on Saturday about the conviction of the former executive Edward P. Mangano and his wife, Linda, referred incorrectly to the couple’s first trial. Witnesses testified about Richard Walker, the former deputy executive of Nassau County; it is not the case that Mr. Walker himself testified. It also referred incorrectly to the benefits that prosecutors said Mr. Mangano received from a restaurateur. He was not accused of receiving free limousine rides.
INTERNATIONAL
An article on Monday about the victims of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 misidentified a United Nations agency whose employees were among the victims in the Ethiopian Airways plane crash. It is the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, not the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
NATIONAL
An article on Saturday about anti-immigration groups that have expressed dismay over President Trump’s recent comments on legal immigration misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.
NEW YORK
Because of an editing error, a headline with an article on Monday about bishops across the country acknowledging their failures in the Roman Catholic Church’s sexual abuse crisis misstated a quotation by Archbishop Leonard P. Blair of Hartford, who was offering a special Mass of Reparations at a parish in Guilford, Conn., last month. He said, “I ask forgiveness of God,” not “I ask forgiveness from God.”
SPORTS
A picture caption in an article on Monday about the golfer Rory McIlroy’s defeat at the Arnold Palmer Invitational misidentified Mr. McIlroy’s partner in the final pairing. It was Matthew Fitzpatrick, not Francesco Molinari.
ARTS
An article on March 2 about movies and television shows to stream this month misstated the premiere date of “Shrill.” It is March 15, not March 8.
SPECIAL SECTION: THE ARTFUL HOME
Several picture captions in an article on Thursday about North African-inspired design misspelled the surname of a Tangier-based interior designer. He is Frank de Biasi, not Frank DiBiasi.
OBITUARIES
An obituary on Monday about the artist Carolee Schneemann misstated the surname of a co-founder of a gallery that represented her. She is Wendy Olsoff, not Osloff.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).
Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
