
24 Photos
View Slide Show ›
This 2.08-acre property is across the road from the Putnam Lake reservoir in mid-country Greenwich, an area defined by the Merritt Parkway, a two-minute drive north, and the Post Road, seven minutes south. The central business district, with shops, restaurants and a Metro-North train station, is concentrated near the southern boundary. The George Washington Bridge is about 40 minutes away.
Size: 5,851 square feet
Price per square foot: $475
Indoors: The house received a two-story addition in 2006 that created a family room downstairs and a master suite upstairs. Further renovations were done in 2015.
Entry is through the front door or an attached two-car garage. The central foyer is flanked on the left by a bookshelf-lined study and on the right by a spacious living room with a bay window and a black marble fireplace. The chef’s kitchen has bright white cabinets and black countertops. The dining room next to it has French doors that lead to a large rear terrace. In the family room that follows are a stone fireplace and three sets of French doors opening onto a side terrace that faces the lake. A wall of built-in bookshelves includes a window with diamond muntins above an upholstered window seat.
Three bedrooms are upstairs and two downstairs, including a main-level suite with a private bathroom. The many-closeted master suite is in a large dormer room and has a bathroom with a double sink surrounded by floor-to-ceiling wood cabinetry and a white-marble-faced stand-alone tub and walk-in shower.
Outdoor space: The house is set back from the road and approached by a curving driveway. An in-ground swimming pool overlooks the lake. In addition to the aforementioned terraces, there is a deck off the master bedroom.
Taxes: $17,999
Contact: Dale Morrison, Berkshire Hathaway Home Services, 203-253-2710; bhhsneproperties.com
Ross, an upscale community of 2,500 people in Marin County, is known for its temperate inland weather and proximity to open space like the slopes of Mount Tamalpais. This shingled house, in the town flats, is a two-minute walk to Marche aux Fleurs, a popular restaurant, and 10 minutes to an excellent kindergarten-through-eighth-grade public school.
Size: 2,471 square feet
Price per square foot: $1,131
Indoors: The single level centers on a great room with a peaked ceiling, wood-strip floors and a large fireplace. One skylight illuminates a formal dining area with built-in cabinets; another sends beams into an open kitchen with room for a breakfast table.
Down a hallway is a wing that includes a media room nook, a small office and three bedrooms. The master suite has a wall of glass and doors that slide open to the pool area.
Outdoor space: The 0.16-acre lot is bounded by fences and hedges that offer privacy. A bluestone patio surrounding a lap pool extends alongside the house, and there is a wood deck off the living room. Parking is in an attached two-car garage.
Taxes: $36,301 (2018)
Contact: Carey Hagglund Condy, Compass, 415-461-8609; compass.com
This white clapboard home with neo-Classical details is a Charleston single house, a narrow rectangular structure with a short side facing the street and a long side containing a double covered porch, or piazza. It is in the South of Broad neighborhood, less than 15 minutes on foot from the Historic Charleston City Market and many other downtown businesses, and five minutes from the riverfront White Point Garden.
Size: 4,495 square feet
Price per square foot: $622
Indoors: The house’s exterior is historically protected and therefore unalterable, but it was modified in the past. At some point, a front portion of the piazza was enclosed to enlarge the living room with a rectangular seating area. An attached carriage house in back was transformed into a two-story addition with a first-floor family room, second-floor office and double-height screened porch.
A vintage heart-pine front door on the elevated piazza opens to a foyer with a curving staircase. To the left is the formal living room, which has high ceilings, heart-pine floors and a marble fireplace with a classical mantel. The annex is decorated with yellow-and-silver striped walls. To the right of the foyer, through pocket doors, is a dining room with a bay window and a second marble fireplace.
Past the dining room is an eat-in chef’s kitchen that was renovated in 2008 with blue granite countertops and blond custom cabinets. The kitchen has two Sub-Zero refrigerators, two Wolf wall ovens and a Fisher & Paykel dish drawer.
Beyond that is the family room, with its gas fireplace, built-in bookshelves and French doors leading out to the back garden. From the family room, a circular staircase rises to the office, which is part of a second-floor master suite; the master bathroom has double vanities, large closets and a walk-in shower.
Two additional bedrooms with en suite bathrooms are on the second floor, including one with a fireplace. There is also a utility area with a washer and dryer. The third floor contains two dormer bedrooms, a newly renovated full bathroom and a storage area.
Outdoor space: The professionally landscaped grounds of the 0.15-acre lot include a side lawn, bordered in shrubs and ornamented with a fountain. There is also a back parterre garden, with gravel paths and a century-old magnolia tree. Up to two cars and a golf cart or additional small car can be parked in the elegantly paved area next to the piazza.
Taxes: $11,519 (2017)
Contact: Helen Geer, William Means Real Estate/Christie’s International Real Estate, 843-224-7767; christiesrealestate.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
