One of the relatively rare Victorians in Minneapolis (the type is more common in neighboring St. Paul), the property was designed by Harry Wild Jones, a prolific local architect whose clients included the founders of the Cream of Wheat and Hormel companies. It is in the Kenwood neighborhood, a couple of blocks from Cedar Lake to the west and Lake of the Isles to the east. The “Mary Tyler Moore house,” the building at 2104 Kenwood Parkway, whose exterior represented the home of Mary Richards in the 1970s sitcom, is a block away.
Size: 4,236 square feet
Price per square foot: $254
Indoors: The home’s previous owners did a thorough renovation; its current owners, who have lived there for 12 years, updated the kitchen, finished the basement and improved the landscaping.
One enters through a curved screened porch and double sets of doors. The foyer’s millwork, diamond-paned windows, a light fixture with dangling crystal pendants and staircase with bead-like balusters set the period tone. Solid wood pocket doors open to a front parlor with original woodwork and more recent stained glass. This room connects to a rear parlor with a tiled (nonworking) corner fireplace topped by an ornately carved ceiling-high mantel. A sunroom is through a set of glass pocket doors.
The formal dining room has arched windows and a ceiling covered in nine different Bradbury & Bradbury wallpapers. A swinging door leads to a windowed butler’s pantry with a wall of built-in cabinets, followed by a bright eat-in kitchen with white enameled wood cabinetry and a marble-tile backsplash.
All four bedrooms are on the second floor. The master has a large bay window and window seat; the attached full bathroom includes a wall of built-in linen cabinets and a stained-glass window. A second full upstairs bathroom is surfaced in blue-and-white penny round tile.
The third floor has a large carpeted family room with exposed ductwork that was installed when the owners put in central air-conditioning. Next to it is a round office in the building’s tower room.
The finished day-lighted basement includes a carpeted family room with built-in bookshelves and a bathroom with a shower.
Outdoor space: The 0.17 acre property includes a fenced backyard with a brick patio and a detached two-car garage.
Taxes: $16,858 (2018)
Contact: Kim Pease or Marcy Libby, Coldwell Banker Burnet, 612-386-3046; coldwellbanker.com
Located in what is known as the Old Country Club area (the golf course was later replaced by a city park), the house is less than two miles from the University of Mississippi campus. The Giants quarterback Eli Manning, who played college football at Ole Miss, has a house in the neighborhood.
Size: 3,619 square feet
Price per square foot: $296
Indoors: A developer purchased the house less than two years ago and refurbished it, removing some walls and installing new custom doors and windows.
On the main level, a white brick chimney that has wood-burning fireplaces on opposite sides is the centerpiece of a vaulted great room. One fireplace faces the living room, the other the dining area. An archway leads to a shiny white kitchen with Viking appliances. Near the kitchen is a den with an additional fireplace, as well as a wet bar and a powder room.
The home’s upper level includes three bedrooms and two bathrooms, including the master. That room has an en-suite bathroom with a glass walk-in shower, soaking tub and vintage vanity cabinet with double sinks.
Descending from the main level takes you to a fourth bedroom, a full bathroom, a large family room and a laundry room.
Outdoor space: The house has a large covered front porch with gas lanterns and a brick patio off the den. Doors in the master bedroom open to a large fenced deck above the double carport. (There is no garage.) The one-acre property includes old oaks, maples, dogwoods and sea pines.
Taxes: $7,021 without a homestead exemption (2017). A new homeowner will pay less if this is a primary residence.
Contact: Jan Cauthen, Kessinger Real Estate, 662-801-1815; jancauthen.com
The house is in the Eastlake neighborhood, between Lake Union and Capitol Hill. The I-5 expressway is a block east (a sound barrier and the slope of a hill lie in between). Lake Union is four blocks west. The tech companies in the South Lake Union district are about 1.5 miles south, and the center of the University of Washington’s campus is a mile north. It is half a block — well within zoning distance — from a coveted kindergarten-through-eighth-grade public school.
Size: 2,200 square feet
Price per square foot: $477
Indoors: The front door, which is tucked into a large covered porch, opens to a living room with 9.5-foot ceilings, hardwood floors and an attached sitting room with a fireplace and built-in window seat. On the other side of the living room is a small den. The adjacent formal dining room has a double pocket door, built-in drawers and cabinets and two walls of original leaded glass windows. The kitchen has slab granite countertops, stainless steel appliances, Marmoleum flooring and an original laundry chute that connects to a second-floor bedroom and the basement.
The four upstairs bedrooms have eight-foot ceilings and original sconces. They share a bathroom with a combined claw-foot tub and shower and a paneled wainscot. A second full bathroom is on the basement level, along with a carpeted media room, wine cellar and 300-square-foot laundry room.
Outdoor space: The house sits at the back of its 0.06-acre lot, which has a mature garden with fir trees and shrubbery and is surrounded by a fence. Off-street parking for one car is available in the alley behind the house, and the property comes with two street-parking permits.
Taxes: $8,032 (2018)
Contact: Sarah Suhadolnik, Realogics Sotheby’s International Realty, 206-300-4502; sothebysrealty.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
