WASHINGTON — As he prepared to finally emerge from the White House on Monday morning, after days of complaining that he had been cooped up there waiting for Democrats to negotiate with him to end a 24-day government shutdown, President Trump momentarily seemed to forget where he was headed.
“Getting ready to address the Farm Convention today in Nashville, Tennessee,” the president said in a Twitter message. “See you in a little while.”
Farmers in Tennessee would have to wait: Mr. Trump was actually scheduled to visit an agricultural conference in Louisiana on Monday. And when he did, he was on the ground for little more than two hours before flying back to the White House.
Mr. Trump has made it a repeated point of pride that he has been confined to the capital in recent weeks while waiting for his Democratic adversaries to give in and agree to spending $5.8 billion on his border wall, but he has actually been stuck in what his allies say is an uncomfortable limbo. It has made him wax wistfully about being unable to visit Mar-a-Lago, his gilded bunker by the sea where if members disagree with him on anything — from the firmness of the house meatloaf recipe to his isolationist approach to foreign allies — they tend to keep those opinions to themselves.
So, unable to resume his weekend routine of soliciting friendly advice from club members on the patio or spending sunny mornings at his nearby golf club, Mr. Trump has tried to make the snowy confines of Washington feel more like his Palm Beach cocoon.
The results are mixed.
Since the shutdown began Dec. 22, Mr. Trump has left the White House fewer than 10 times. He has shared his shut-in routine with America: When not at work in the Oval Office, he has frittered away the hours by watching the multiple flat-screen TVs installed in the White House residence, gazing out of secured windows, tweeting at his enemies and phoning his friends.
“Wish I could share with everyone the beauty and majesty of being in the White House and looking outside at the snow filled lawns and Rose Garden,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday as the chaos of an embittered capital was all but silenced by snow. Melania Trump, the first lady, then shared a photo of the wintry wonderland to give Americans a visual.
But the flurry of tweets Mr. Trump sent shortly afterward attacking assorted perceived foes, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, his first announced Democratic opponent in 2020, and the billionaire Jeff Bezos, seemed to show that not even the most dedicated of homebody presidents is immune from a bout of cabin fever.
“I think it was harmful to him psychologically that he didn’t make it down here over the holidays,” Laurence Leamer, a longtime Palm Beach resident who has known Mr. Trump since the 1990s and has written a book on Mar-a-Lago, wrote in an email. “Despite his impulsive exterior, he’s a man of routine, and that’s what Mar-a-Lago is all about.”
Both Mr. Trump and White House officials have said that he will remain in Washington for as long as the shutdown persists, though allies expect him to give in and make an appearance in Palm Beach over the long Martin Luther King Jr. Day weekend.
In a statement, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr. Trump’s press secretary, said the president was at work whether he was at the White House, one of his “personal properties” or riding on Air Force One.
“The president is always working,” Ms. Sanders said. “During the time leading up to the shutdown and since, he has been almost entirely at the White House working to find solutions to deal with the humanitarian and national security crisis at our southern border.”
Democrats, Ms. Sanders added, “have spent their time at beach resorts, watching Broadway shows and attending cocktail receptions with lobbyists.”
Ms. Sanders was referring to a trip organized by the political arm of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which flew three dozen or so House members to San Juan for two days of receptions and meetings on the damage to the island from Hurricane Maria as well as a performance of “Hamilton” with its creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda. Although Republicans said Speaker Nancy Pelosi was one of those attending, a spokesman said she, like the president, stayed in Washington for the weekend.
A person familiar with the president’s thinking who spoke on the condition of anonymity described Mr. Trump as both a “workaholic” and a “homebody.” The president, that person said, has been sensitive to the criticism that he is vacationing when he visits his assorted properties on the weekends, when in fact that has been his preferred mode of weekending for decades.
Stuck in Washington over the weekend, Mr. Trump called into the Fox News personality Jeanine Pirro’s TV show to remind Americans that he was still in work mode.
In a lengthy phone call with Ms. Pirro on Saturday evening, the president angrily defended his demand for $5 billion in border wall funding and attacked news reports that the F.B.I. has conducted an investigation into whether he has worked on behalf of Russia.
And the president stated once again that he relished the idea of stewing at home alone.
“I like the symbol of me being here and them being at some play in a nice location having a good time,” Mr. Trump said, joining in the bashing of the Puerto Rico trip.
The last time Mr. Trump visited Puerto Rico, he was panned for throwing paper towels into a crowd.
“I haven’t actually left the White House in months,” Mr. Trump said to Ms. Pirro before acknowledging that he had in fact left. “I’ve been here virtually every night, I guess every night other than one day I flew to Iraq and then to Germany to see our troops.”
Mr. Trump has long enjoyed puttering around his homes, said Timothy O’Brien, the author of the 2005 book “TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald.” The president does not enjoy extensive travel, or sleeping or eating under a roof that is not his own, and he has long imported friends and associates to visit him for dinner.
“Before he was president,” Mr. O’Brien wrote in an email, “he favored the familiar because it allowed an antisocial teetotaler to mingle selectively with other people — on his own terms and under his control — before retreating back inside to do what he enjoys spending most of his time doing: sitting in front of a TV with a cheeseburger watching sports.”
Mr. Leamer, the author, said that Mr. Trump is “as isolated as any public figure could conceivably be,” and added that Mr. Trump’s gregarious exterior masked the habits of a loner.
"He has walled himself off from the rest of the world,” Mr. Leamer said. “He loves to go out and receive the accolades of his adoring supporters, but as soon as the applause dies out, he’s back into his own private world.”
At the conference in New Orleans on Monday, Mr. Trump received a standing ovation — the same reception he gets whenever supporters spot him at Mar-a-Lago. He praised the New Orleans Saints and bragged that an ally had placed about 100 phone calls to make sure that he would actually turn up.
Then he returned to Washington for another at-home event — welcoming members of the Clemson University football team to the White House to celebrate their national championship last year.
The president greeted reporters in the White House dining room, where he proudly displayed a table piled high with burgers from McDonald’s, Wendy’s, and Burger King. Another table in back was covered with Domino’s pizza and fries.
Ms. Sanders had an explanation for the menu, putting it in political terms. “Because the Democrats refuse to negotiate on border security, much of the residence staff at the White House is furloughed — so the president is personally paying for the event to be catered with some of everyone’s favorite fast foods.”
Mr. Trump himself called it “great American food.” But maybe it was really something else — comfort food for a president who feels stuck at home.
