Corina Biton and Gary Blicksilver met at a cafe in North Miami Beach in summer 1984, and soon began dating. Mr. Blicksilver had just returned to South Florida from New York and was about to begin his senior year at the University of Miami.
After a series of starts and stops over the next three years, they lost touch, and Mr. Blicksilver eventually left Florida, and Ms. Biton, a move he still regrets.
“I had everything I ever needed in Corina,” he said. “But for reasons best attributable to youthful immaturity and a lack of patience, I let it go.”
Twenty-nine years later, a second chance arose.
In July 2016, Mr. Blicksilver, who had married and divorced in the intermittent years and was now living in Brooklyn, reached out to Ms. Biton, also long-divorced, on Facebook, where she had posted news of her mother’s death, including an obituary.
“I’m sorry about your loss, my thoughts are with you,” Mr. Blicksilver wrote, putting himself back on her radar.
In late December that year, Ms. Biton was on vacation in New York with a group of friends and decided to call Mr. Blicksilver and ask him to dinner.
They met at a cafe in Midtown Manhattan, but their first face-to-face encounter in three decades did not turn out to be the fairy tale reunion either of them had expected.
“Let’s just say it was a combination of too many martinis and too much information,” Ms. Biton said.
Mr. Blicksilver knew where he had erred. “I immediately started professing my long-lost love for her,” he said. “I probably should not have jumped into that kind of conversation so quickly, it was way too soon.”
When asked what his thoughts were upon seeing Ms. Biton for the first time in 29 years, Mr. Blicksilver began to cry. “I thought she was as beautiful as I had remembered her all those years before,” he said. “I just stood there wondering how I ever let her go in the first place.”
Ms. Biton was doing some wondering herself. “Despite the fact that our reunion date didn’t go so well, I did get a real nice vibe being around Gary,” she said. “It was like being back there again in time, and I really wanted to pick up again on a good note.”
So she decided that they would have a “redo,” as she called it, a second opportunity at their first reunion date. He agreed, and she returned on Feb. 3, 2017, to do it all over again. They had dinner at Serafina’s and drinks at the King Cole Bar at the St. Regis Hotel.
This time, they rediscovered their old chemistry.
Read more.
Shaina Roet Watrous and Joseph Walzer Barrett were married Feb. 2 at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. Justice Elena Kagan of the Supreme Court, a friend of the groom’s family, officiated.
The couple met at Princeton, from which they each graduated.
Ms. Watrous, 28, is a third-year law student at N.Y.U. In September, she is to begin a staff attorney fellowship at the Center for Appellate Litigation, a nonprofit organization that does appellate public defense and post conviction for indigent defendants in Manhattan and the Bronx.
She is the daughter of Ilene Shunfenthal Watrous and Donald A. Watrous of Princeton Junction, N.J. The bride’s mother is a physical therapist in private practice there. Her father is a systems administrator in the computer science department at Rutgers University in Piscataway, N.J.
Mr. Barrett, 27, is a planner at the Center for Court Innovation, a nonprofit organization in Manhattan that works to create a more effective and humane justice system. He focuses on new projects designed to provide alternatives to prosecution and incarceration in the city’s criminal justice system. He received a master’s degree in economic and social history from the University of Oxford, where he was a Rhodes scholar.
He is the son of Sarah E. Walzer and John Q. Barrett of Manhattan. The groom’s mother is the chief executive of the Parent-Child Home Program, a national early childhood literacy and school-readiness organization in Mineola, N.Y. She is on the board of the Princeton-based Petey Greene Program, which trains college students in tutoring people in prisons. His father is a professor of law at St. John’s University in Jamaica, Queens. He is on the board of the Robert H. Jackson Center in Jamestown, N.Y., which honors the legacy of the late associate Supreme Court justice.
The couple met in August 2009 on the first day of orientation of Princeton’s inaugural Bridge Year Program, through which they deferred their first year of undergraduate study to perform service work for nine months in Varanasi, India, where they began their relationship. She worked with an anti-sex-trafficking nonprofit group, and he with a literacy organization. Last August, during a visit to Varanasi, Mr. Barrett proposed as they sat along the Ganges River on Tulsi Ghat, just a few feet from where they had their first kiss.
Molly Maureen Hurff and James Robert Price were married Feb. 2 on a beach on Anna Maria Island, Fla. Trevor Giles, the groom’s brother who is a minister ordained in the Church of God, officiated.
Ms. Hurff, 28, is an associate public finance investment banker at J. P. Morgan in New York, where she specializes in infrastructure financing. She previously worked as a model and was represented by Ford Models and Elite Model Management. She graduated from N.Y.U.
She is a daughter of Susan A. Hurff and Donald A. Hurff Jr. of Holmes Beach, Fla. The bride’s father, who is retired, was an air traffic control software programmer for the Computer Sciences Corporation, an information technology and professional services company that was based in Tysons, Va. Her mother, who is retired, was a chef at Sorella Rose Avalon, a restaurant in Avalon, N.J.
Mr. Price, 33, is an equity trader at Tremblant Capital, an asset management firm based in New York. He graduated from Columbia. From 2003 to 2009, he was an infantry paratrooper in the Army’s 82nd Airborne Division; he was deployed for three combat tours in Iraq.
He is a son of Terry L. Giles and Gary R. Giles of Yakima, Wash. The groom’s mother is a legal assistant at the public defender’s office in Yakima. His father works in Richland, Wash., as a senior service engineer with Abadan, a company that provides copiers, printers, scanners and other office solutions throughout the state of Washington.
The couple met in 2014 at a New York bar, where the bride worked while she was in college.
Katherine Amanda Long and Christopher John Mathieu were married Feb. 2 at the Mercury Hall, an events space in Austin, Tex. Benjamin Lookner, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.
The bride, 30, is an associate in the Washington office of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, a law firm based in New York, where she focuses on the tax aspects of mergers and acquisitions. She graduated with high honors from the University of Texas at Austin and received a law degree from the University of Chicago.
She is the daughter of Denice Murley of Dripping Springs, Tex., and Robert A. Long of Austin. She is the stepdaughter of Jerry Murley.
The groom, 32, is an executive director in the Washington office of J.P. Morgan Private Bank. He graduated from Georgetown.
He is a son of Michelle F. Mathieu and John A. Mathieu of Westbrook, Conn.
The couple met in 2016 through the dating app Bumble.
Sarah Fulton Stapleton and William Trevor Rees were married Feb. 2 at the Church of the Heavenly Rest in Manhattan. The Rev. Elizabeth Garnsey, an Episcopal priest, officiated.
Mrs. Rees, 35, is the clinical supervisor of the Wakefield campus of the Caregiver Support Center at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She graduated from Harvard and received a Master of Social Work from N.Y.U.
She is the daughter of Benjamin F. Stapleton III of Manhattan and the late Jane Fulton Stapleton. The bride’s father retired as a partner in the Manhattan law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, and is now of senior counsel. Her mother was a docent at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in Manhattan.
Mr. Rees, 34, who goes by Trevor, is an English teacher and the varsity squash coach at Salisbury School, a private all-boys boarding school in Salisbury, Conn. He graduated from Yale, and received an M.B.A. from the University of North Carolina.
He is a son of Nancy Donohue Rees and W. Mason Rees of Charleston, S.C. The groom’s mother retired as a history teach at Rye Country Day School in Rye, N.Y. She is a rules official for the United States Golf Association in Far Hills, N.J. His father retired as a managing director at Merrill Lynch in Manhattan. He on the board of Kids on Point, an after-school squash program in Charleston.
The groom’s previous marriage ended in divorce.
The couple met in July 2017 through the dating app Bumble. They had a date a week later, and after they saw each other a few more times Mr. Rees knew he was hooked when Ms. Stapleton beat him in her first game of backgammon.
Catherine Sara Stahl and Andrew Vincent Shapiro were married Feb. 1 at the Fox Hollow, an events space in Woodbury, N.Y. Mary K. White, a friend of the bride’s family and a judge in the family division of Vincinage 15 Superior Court in New Jersey, in Woodbury, N.J., officiated.
Mrs. Shapiro, 29, who goes by Cassie, is a production manager at Bernard Chaus, a women’s sportswear company in New York. She graduated summa cum laude with a bachelor of arts in Italian and a bachelor of science in textiles, merchandising and design from the University of Rhode Island.
She is the daughter of Shelley E. Stahl and Edward J. Stahl of Marlton, N.J. The bride’s father retired as the principal of Triton Regional High School in Runnemede, N.J. Her mother is a licensed psychotherapist in private practice in Haddonfield, N.J.
Mr. Shapiro, 30, is an investments optimization senior analyst at American Express in New York. He graduated from Boston University.
He is the son of Anne Mancuso and Howard M. Shapiro of Tarrytown, N.Y. The groom’s mother retired from The New York Times as the news assistant in the Weekend Arts section; she continues to freelance for the Real Estate section. His father retired as the director of sales at Consolidated Technologies, an information technology service provider in New York.
The couple met in June 2014 at the Spring Lounge, a bar in Lower Manhattan, after Mr. Shapiro walked up to compliment Ms. Stahl on her red dress. They went on their first date the following week, and soon began binge-watching scary movies together.
Melanie Rae Adelson and Benjamin Klebanoff were married Feb. 2 at the Miami Beach Edition Hotel in Miami. Rabbi Judith Siegal officiated.
Ms. Adelson, 32, is an underwriting counsel for Ambridge Partners, a transactional insurance underwriting firm in New York. She graduated with great distinction from McGill University in Montreal, from which she also received a graduate diploma in public accountancy. She holds a joint law degree and master’s degree in tax law, cum laude, from the University of Miami. She is a certified public accountant in both the United States and Canada.
She is a daughter of Cynthia Adelson and Andrew Adelson of Montreal. The bride’s father is the vice president for development of the Westcliff Group, a commercial and residential real estate management firm in Montreal. Her mother is the founder of a residential interior design firm in Montreal that bears her name.
Mr. Klebanoff, 31, is a litigation associate at Shearman & Sterling, a law firm in New York. He graduated from Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio, and received a law degree with honors from Emory University in Atlanta.
He is a son of Danielle Greenberg and Victor Klebanoff of Waccabuc, N.Y. Dr. Greenberg is a retired senior director and senior fellow at PepsiCo in Purchase, N.Y. The groom’s father is a statistician and data scientist in Waccabuc.
The couple met on a blind date in New York in 2016 that was set up by mutual friends.
Dr. Alexandra Sarah Delfiner and Ian Matthew Bomberg were married Feb. 2 at the Brooklyn Winery. Rabbi Jonathan Pearl officiated.
Dr. Delfiner, 31, is a pediatric dentist practicing in Midland Park, N.J., and Orangeburg, N.Y. She graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received a dental degree from Columbia.
She is a daughter of Dr. Madeline Ginzburg and Dr. Joel Delfiner of the Bronx. The bride’s father is a neurologist at Mount Sinai West and Mount Sinai St. Luke’s Hospital, both in Manhattan. Her mother, who is a retired dentist, owned a private practice in the Bronx.
Mr. Bomberg, 33, is a vice president of Citibank in Long Island City, Queens. He graduated from Tufts and received an M.B.A. from Dartmouth.
He is a son of Bonnie G. Bomberg of Highland Park, Ill., and Jacob Bomberg of Wauconda, Ill. The groom’s parents are founders of Bomberg Property Management, a real-estate management company in Chicago.
The couple met in 2015 through the dating app Hinge.
Anne Blythe Roberts and Ian John McNerney were married Feb. 2 at the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea in Palm Beach, Fla. The Rev. James R. Harlan, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.
Mrs. McNerney, who is 27 and known as Blythe, is an interior designer in Washington and a founder of Gatopard, a linen and tabletop company there. She graduated from Wake Forest University and received a certificate in interior design from the New York School of Interior Design.
She is a daughter of Elizabeth B. Roberts and Robin D. Roberts of Alexandria, Va. The bride’s father is the president and chief executive of National Media, a company in Alexandria, Va., that specializes in strategic research, planning and placement of advertising for corporate and political campaigns.
Mr. McNerney, 26, is an associate at the Carlyle Group in Washington. He also graduated from Wake Forest.
He is a son of Nancy R. McNerney and Martin M. McNerney of McLean, Va. The groom’s father is a partner in King & Spalding, a law firm in Washington.
The couple met at the Potomac School, a high school in McLean, when he was a freshman and she was a sophomore.
