Genevieve Anne Bentz and Samuel Jordan Lewis met in October 2011 at a Halloween party held in the Manhattan apartment of a mutual friend. Ms. Bentz was wearing a costume in tribute to the Oxford comma, which had just been struck from the University of Oxford Style Manual. “Yes, I was mourning the death of a comma,” Ms. Bentz said, laughing.
The groom was dressed as a hamster. “I’ve always loved small woodland creatures,” Ms. Bentz said, laughing a bit harder.
Though Ms. Bentz was not aware that Mr. Lewis was a fellow student at Princeton, he already had her in his sights on campus. “I recognized her from the art history library,” he said. “I thought she was absolutely beautiful.”
He finally introduced himself, and they chatted for five hours.
“He was handsome, sweet, engaging and had a very wry sense of humor,” Ms. Bentz said.
They learned new things about each other, including the fact that each had a grandfather who worked together as chemists at American Cyanamid, a small chemical company in Stamford, Conn.
They were just beginning to share a chemistry of their own when Mr. Lewis left Manhattan for Chicago in September 2012 to work on President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. At about the same time, Ms. Bentz went to Colorado to work at a ski resort. The kept in touch, and two months later, when Ms. Bentz accompanied a friend who was participating in the Chicago Marathon, she and Mr. Lewis had lunch together.
“At that point we really liked each other,” she said, “but we were in different places geographically, so getting together was really hard.”
In January 2014, Mr. Lewis sent Ms. Bentz an invitation, and a round-trip Amtrak ticket, to visit him in Washington for an official first date. “I went that weekend, and went back again and again, five weekends in a row,” said Ms. Bentz, who was living again in Stonington at that time.
On that fifth weekend, she decided to make getting together a whole lot easier.
“I just stayed,” she said. “I never left Sam, or Washington for that matter.”
After their ceremony, the couple are to hold their reception at Comet Ping Pong, the location of the “Pizzagate” conspiracy and shooting. The couple chose both restaurants as a show of support for the businesses, which are one door from each other on the same street. The groom has been going to both places since he was a child and the staff, which are interchangeable, are family friends.
Read more.
Stephanie Nicole Cordes and Eric Hayes Stephenson were married Feb. 16 at the Lighthouse at Chelsea Piers, an events space in New York. Josh Tanenbaum, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.
The bride, 29, and groom, 31, met in the New York office of the Cordes Foundation, a family foundation of which they are chairs, that focuses on social entrepreneurship, impact investing and the economic advancement of women.
Mrs. Stephenson graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara. She is the daughter of Marty M. Cordes and Ron D. Cordes of New York, who are the founders of the foundation. The bride’s father was until 2009 the chief executive of Assetmark, a financial services firm in Concord, Calif.
Mr. Stephenson is also the director of client services at Align Impact, a specialized impact advisory firm in Los Angeles. He graduated from Temple University and received a master’s degree in education from the University of the Pacific. He is a son of Iliana R. Brice of Anna, Tex., and Edward H. Stephenson of Anderson, S.C. The groom’s mother is the manager of global trade compliance at Raytheon in McKinney, Tex. His father is a senior database administrator at PDX, a software company for pharmacy fulfillment in Fort Worth.
Dr. Natasha Bhuyan and Dr. Patrick W. Vinck were married Feb. 16 at the Hyatt Regency Resort & Spa at Gainey Ranch in Scottsdale, Ariz. John V. Welsh, who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion and is the maternal uncle of the groom, officiated incorporating Christian elements. Earlier in the day Sri Kiran Rao, a Hindu priest, led a Hindu ceremony.
The bride and groom, both 33, met at the University of Arizona, from which they each graduated magna cum laude. They received their medical degrees from the University of Arizona College of Medicine in Tucson. Both are family physicians.
The bride is the regional medical director of emerging markets at One Medical in Phoenix, a primary care group with 80 offices nationwide that does both office and virtual visits. She is responsible for the Phoenix, Los Angeles, Seattle and San Diego areas. She is also on the faculty at the University of Arizona College of Medicine - Phoenix, where she teaches medical students at a clinic for homeless patients. She is on the board of Planned Parenthood Federation of America in New York.
She is a daughter of Sewali Bhuyan and Karuna N. Bhuyan of Phoenix. Her father retired as the supervisor of a team focusing on pest control and detection at the Department of Agriculture in Phoenix, and is now an agricultural consultant focusing on insects and disease.
The groom is the Arizona medical director of PopHealthCare in Tempe, Ariz., an in-home care provider based in Nashville for medically complex patients. He is also a founder of AmniCam, a business in Phoenix offering three-dimensional measurement aids for labor monitoring.
He is a son of Jaime W. Vinck and William C. Vinck of Tucson. The groom’s mother is the chief executive at Sierra Tucson, a residential treatment center for substance use disorder and mental health in Tucson. His father is a managing director traveling domestically and abroad to work on transactions at Chapman Associates, a middle market mergers and acquisitions firm based in Schaumburg, Ill.
The couple met in August 2005 at an orientation for new resident assistants at college. They became friends, and in February had their first date only after he texted several clues to her, including an acrostic puzzle, which finally led her to the rooftop of a new chemistry building where he awaited her with Brie and sparkling cider.
Christina Noelle Gervasi and William Joseph Hochul III were married Feb. 16 at the Immaculate Conception Jesuit Church in New Orleans. The Rev. Kevin Mackin, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.
The bride, 31, is the director of public policy at the McManus Group, a health care consulting and policy firm in Washington. She graduated cum laude from Tulane, received a masters of law degree from George Washington University and received a law degree from the University of Dayton.
She is a daughter of Janice R. Gervasi and Dr. Lawrence Gervasi of Cleveland. The bride’s father is a partner and medical director of clinical research at Southwest Urology, a private urology practice in Middleburg Heights, Ohio. He is also an assistant clinical professor of urology at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. Her mother is a licensed real estate agent in private practice in Independence, Ohio.
The groom, also 31, is an associate at Sidley Austin, a law firm in Washington. He graduated cum laude from the State University of New York at Geneseo and received a law degree, magna cum laude, from Notre Dame.
He is the son of Kathy C. Hochul, the lieutenant governor of New York, and William J. Hochul Jr. of Buffalo. The groom’s mother is a former United States representative, serving New York’s 26th District. His father is the general counsel of Delaware North in Buffalo, and he was the United States attorney for the Western District of New York.
The couple met in 2017 at Vinoteca, a wine bar in Washington.
Linden Frelinghuysen van Roijen and Edward Barnes Rackley were married Feb. 16 at Christ Church Georgetown in Washington. The Rev. Timothy A.R. Cole, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.
The bride, 41, was until last year a teaching assistant at inTown Play Group, a children’s youth center in Washington. She graduated from Clark University in Worcester, Mass. She is a daughter of Beatrice F. van Roijen and Peter Portner van Roijen of Washington.
The bride’s father retired as the owner of the Secor Group, a venture capital firm in Washington.
The groom, 52, is a Washington-based consultant to agencies and governments doing disaster relief and recovery, primarily in Africa. He is currently an adviser with the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations and Thomson Reuters Foundation, London. He graduated from the University of Richmond and received both a master’s degree and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the New School for Social Research in New York.
He is the son and Elizabeth Woodhall Rackley and Dr. Charles E. Rackley of Washington. The groom’s mother retired as the owner of Merrybuds, a floral decoration business in Washington. His father, a retired cardiologist, is the former chairman of the department of medicine at Georgetown University Hospital.
The couple were introduced by mutual friends in Washington in 2010, but the bride was living in Austin, Tex., and Paris at that time. They were reacquainted in 2017 by the same couple, and by now the bride was living in Washington. A year later, their friendship blossomed into romance.
Jennifer Sara Citak and Gabriel Joseph Gershowitz are to be married Feb. 17 at Montammy Golf Club in Alpine, N.J. Rabbi Shaul Robinson is to officiate.
The bride and groom graduated from George Washington University, each summa cum laude. He also received a master’s degree in public policy summa cum laude from the school.
The bride, 29, will take her husband’s name. She is a designer, principal and the fourth generation to work in her family’s business Robert Fabrikant, a jeweler in New York, of which her mother, Shari Fabrikant Citak, is the principal owner. The bride received a master’s degree in international relations from the London School of Economics.
She is the daughter of Mrs. Citak and Dr. Kenneth A. Citak of New York. The bride’s father is a neurologist and partner in the Neurology Group of Bergen County and the director of the neurosciences department at the Valley Hospital, both in Ridgewood, N.J. He is on the boards of the Brown University Club in New York, and Temple Emanu-El of Closter, N.J.
The groom, 36, is of counsel at Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York. He received a law degree from Columbia. He is on the young professional’s board of the America-Israel Friendship League in New York.
He is a son of Tova Cavell Gershowitz of Baltimore, and the late Michael V. Gershowitz. Until 2008, the groom’s mother worked part time teaching mixed media studio classes and leading gallery tours for elementary and junior high students in the education department at the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa. His father was an assistant professor of public administration at the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Rutgers University in Newark, and the director and the founder of the Writing Center there.
The couple met in 2016 at a charity brunch in New York, but a few months later after meeting again at a party, they became friends and early morning workout buddies at an Equinox gym near their offices in Midtown Manhattan. In June 2017, over coffee before heading to the gym, they decided to become romantically involved, and after a 24-hour holding period had their first kiss before their next workout.
Dr. Tracy Lauren Salmon and Dr. Spencer Andrew Svetcov were married Feb. 16 at the Pleasantdale Chateau in West Orange, N.J. Rabbi Michael Jay officiated.
The bride, 32, is an attending physician at NYU Langone Health and a clinical assistant professor at the NYU School of Medicine. She graduated magna cum laude from Lafayette College and received a medical degree from St. George’s University School of Medicine in Grenada, West Indies.
She is a daughter of Meryl Greene Salmon and Jon C. Salmon of Jersey City. The bride’s father owns a real estate firm that bears his name, in Castleton Corners, Staten Island. Her mother is an assistant executive director of Children at Play, a preschool for children with learning and developmental delays in Bulls Head, Staten Island.
The groom, 31, is an endodontist at Advanced Endodontics of Westchester in White Plains, and also works with his father, Dr. Steven Svetcov, at Svetcov Endodontics in Flushing, Queens. He graduated from Carnegie Mellon University and received a doctorate of dental surgery from New York University College of Dentistry, where he graduated with honors in endodontics.
He is a son of Mindy Katz Svetcov of White Plains and Dr. Svetcov of Scarsdale, N.Y. The groom’s mother is a senior associate in the Saul R. Korey Department of Neurology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. She serves as a biostatistician and an investigator on several National Institutes of Health research studies relating to Alzheimer’s disease and cognitive decline, including the Einstein Aging Study.
The couple met in April 2016 as part of a blind double date in Manhattan.
Alisa Ann Friscia and Kevin Christopher Guidette are to be married Feb. 17 at Stella Maris Roman Catholic Church in San Juan, P.R. The Rev. Jose Quintero, a Roman Catholic priest, is to perform the ceremony.
The bride, 35, is a new business sales executive at IBISWorld, a research firm to the financial industry in Manhattan. She graduated from the University of Chicago and received a master’s degree with honors in special education from the City College of New York.
She is a daughter of Maria Eugenia Hubert-Friscia and Lawrence John Friscia of Mendham, N.J. The bride’s father retired as the owner of Larry’s Auto & Electric in Newark. Her mother retired as a Spanish teacher at Livingston High School in Livingston, N.J.
The groom, 29, is a new business sales executive at Dow Jones & Company in Manhattan. He graduated from the University of Connecticut.
He is the son of Mary Regina Guidette and Christopher Lino Guidette of Otis, Mass. The groom’s mother retired as the superintendent of schools for Middlesex County, N.J. His father retired as the vice president for communications at Insurance Services Office, a provider of consulting services to the insurance industry.
The couple met in August 2016 while working in sales for the Brooklyn Nets.
Casey Jay Potter and Kyle Andrew Poelker were married Feb. 16 at the Jewel Box at Forest Park, an events space in St. Louis. Nadine O’Reilly, who was ordained by the American Marriage Ministries, officiated.
The bride and groom met in 2009 at the University of Chicago, from which they each received a law degree.
Ms. Potter, 34, is a staff lawyer at the Texas Court of Appeals for the First District in Houston. She graduated magna cum laude from Southern Methodist University.
She is a daughter of Carol Craig Potter and David C. Potter, both of Dallas. Until 2014, the bride’s father was the chief executive of Source, a telecommunications company that was in Dallas. Her mother works as a stylist in the Dallas showroom of the Carlisle Collection, a women’s fashion line based in New York. She is the vice chairman of the board of the Miss Texas Scholarship Pageant in Richardson, Tex., a part of the Miss America pageant. She is also a traveling companion to Miss Texas.
Mr. Poelker, 33, is a litigation associate at the Houston law firm Ahmad, Zavitsanos, Anaipakos, Alavi & Mensing. He graduated cum laude from Georgetown.
He is a son of Elizabeth Pecha-Poelker and Christopher J. Poelker of St. Louis. The groom’s mother is the chief executive of PrintFlex Graphics, a printing company in St. Louis specializing in promotions, coupons and labels. She is on the boards of South City Family Y.M.C.A. in St. Louis, of which she is chairwoman emeritus; and Grace Hill Women’s Business Center in St. Louis, which provides support to women starting their own businesses. His father retired as an English teacher at Hazelwood West Middle School in Hazelwood, Mo.
The couple met briefly during a law school tradition in which incoming students shake hands with everyone else in their class. They soon began interacting daily, mostly impatiently, since his locker was above hers. By the third year they were good friends, and after graduation a long-distance relationship began while she lived in Austin and he in St. Louis.
Amanda Helena Freyre and Michael John Martinez were married Feb. 16 at the St. Patrick Catholic Church in Miami Beach. The Rev. Roberto M. Cid, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.
The couple met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which the bride received a law degree and the groom received an M.B.A. and a law degree.
Ms. Freyre, 33, works as a litigation senior associate in the New York office of the law firm Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman. She graduated from Florida State University.
She is the daughter of Patricia M. Salow of Miami and Julio C. Freyre of Hallandale Beach, Fla. The bride’s father retired as a vice president for commercial operations in Latin America at Beckman Coulter, a diagnostics company in Miami. He now works as a consultant for international corporations in the clinical diagnostics industry. The bride’s mother is a mental health counselor for Wellspring Counseling in Miami.
Mr. Martinez, 36, works as the associate general counsel and vice president of CCMP Capital Advisors, a private equity firm in New York. He graduated from Georgetown.
Mr. Martinez is a son of Susan L. Martinez and David S. Martinez of Roswell, N.M. The groom’s mother is a social worker in the placement and adoption division for the New Mexico Children, Youth and Families Department in Roswell. The groom’s father is a social worker for the Roswell Independent School District.
Melissa Ann Booher and Michael David Malone are to be married Feb. 17 at the Parker Palm Springs in Palm Springs, Calif. Kent Whitaker Sterchi, a friend of the couple who was ordained through the Evangel Ministerial Association, is to officiate.
The bride, 35, will take her husband’s name. She works in sales as an account lead at Google in New York. She graduated from the University of Georgia.
She is a daughter of Beth Westbrook Booher and Frank Boyd Booher of Orlando, Fla. The bride’s father is an independent real estate agent in Lake Lure, N.C.
The groom, 42, is the founder and chief executive of Livestock Framing, an online art gallery in Portland, Ore. He graduated from Gettysburg College.
He is the son of Beverly Ann Malone and Richard Arthur Malone of Lake Oswego, Ore. The groom’s father retired as a real estate developer in Lake Oswego.
The couple met in New York in December 2016 through a mutual friend.
Taylor Hartley Foxman and Sebastian Maximilian Weiner were married Feb. 13 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. Huiling Zheng, a staff member of the city clerk’s office, officiated.
The bride, 30, works as the director of external communications in the New York office of Pernod Ricard USA, the wine and spirits supplier based in Paris. She graduated cum laude from Boston University.
She is the daughter of Ava M. Foxman and Dr. Scott G. Foxman of Linwood, N.J. The bride’s father is a retinal surgeon in private practice in Northfield, Vineland and Cape May Courthouse, N.J. Her mother is the creator of Moonbabies, a beaded jewelry company in Linwood and a managing partner at WokWorks, a Philadelphia-based Asian food cart company.
The groom, also 30, is an associate at IMAP M&A Consultants, a boutique investment banking firm that provides financial advisory services to midsize companies in Germany. He graduated from SRH University Heidelberg, an educational institution in Heidelberg, Germany and received an M.B.A. from Cornell.
He is a son of Ulrike Weiner and Stephan G. Weiner of Schwetzingen, Germany. The groom’s mother manages a home accessories store in Schwetzingen. The groom’s father, who is retired, was the managing director of Imhoff & Stahl, a company in Mannheim, Germany, that focuses on the trading and distribution of chemicals.
The couple met in 2017 through the dating app Tinder.
Jamie Ellen Geller and Daniel Scott Schwarz were married Feb. 16 at the Four Seasons Hotel in Chicago. The groom’s father, Rabbi Sid Schwarz, officiated.
The bride, 29, works in Washington as a senior adviser and the communications director for Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas. She was until January 2018 a professional staff member and deputy communications director in Washington for the House Foreign Affairs Committee. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and received a master’s degree in security studies program from Georgetown.
She is a daughter of Mary A. Geller and Norm S. Geller of Chicago. The bride’s father is the managing partner of GEM Realty Capital, a commercial real estate investment firm in Chicago.
The groom, who is 33 and works in Washington, is the head of communications for the House Judiciary Committee under its chairman, Representative Jerry Nadler, Democrat of New York, for whom he has previously worked as communications director and foreign policy adviser since 2015. He graduated from Indiana University-Bloomington and received a master’s degree in politics and communications from the London School of Economics.
He is also a son of Sandy Perlstein. The groom’s parents live in Rockville, Md. The groom’s mother is a registered nurse at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Washington. His father is the founding rabbi of Adat Shalom Reconstructionist Congregation in Bethesda, Md., and a senior fellow at Hazon, a nonprofit organization promoting sustainable communities in the Jewish world.
The couple met in October 2015 in the hallways while working on Capitol Hill. The bride was planning a trip to Israel for the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the groom had Representative Nadler ask a longtime friend, Representative Eliot L. Engel, then the committee’s ranking member, for the bride’s number so they could coordinate trip logistics.
Deanna Nicole D’Alfonso and Corrado Giovanni Altomare are to be married Feb. 17 at Christ the Saviour Orthodox Church in Paramus, N.J. Bishop Daniel D. Brum is to perform the ceremony.
The bride, 32, will take her husband’s name. She is the marketing manager in New York for Prestige Wine Imports. She graduated from the State University of New York at Buffalo, and received an M.B.A. from the University of Bologna in Italy.
She is the daughter of Cynthia L. D’Alfonso and Claudio D’Alfonso of New Windsor, N.Y.
The groom, who is also 32 and works remotely from Jersey City, is the export manager for the Americas for Nyetimber, a British sparkling wine brand. He graduated from Lehigh University. He is also a member of the University Glee Club of Manhattan, a men’s singing group.
He is the son of Alfonsina M. Altomare and Dr. Corrado Altomare of Flemington, N.J.
The couple met at the South Beach Wine & Food Festival in Miami in February 2017.
