SAN DIEGO — When Tiger Woods saw the position of his ball in a bunker near the 18th green on Friday, he frowned, and then slapped the butt end of his iron on the fringe several times.
“Had an 8-iron in from the middle of the fairway, and I plugged it under the lip,” Woods said in disgust.
His horrible lie off a pulled approach shot stood to damage his second round in the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines and imperil his chances of making the cut.
With an awkward, bent-kneed stance outside the bunker, he slashed at the ball below his feet but could move it only a few yards, onto the fringe. From there, Woods chipped past the hole, then lipped out a 6-foot putt and finished with a double-bogey 6.
Suddenly sitting on the cut line with nine holes to play — he started on the 10th hole of the North Course on Friday — Woods had to battle to advance to weekend play. But on the strength of birdies on his 12th and 13th holes, he shot a two-under-par 70 for the second straight day to finish with a 36-hole total of four-under 140, one shot clear of the cut.
Woods was tied for 48th, 11 shots behind the leader, Justin Rose, the world’s top-ranked player, who shot a 66 Friday on the South Course to reach 15 under, tying the tournament record for 36 holes. Hideki Matsuyama was second, three shots off the pace, after his second consecutive 66.
After posting an up-and-down round on the South Course on Thursday, Woods said his second-round goal was to play aggressively and post a “low number” on the North, where a majority of the tournament’s best scores were posted both days. (The North played two shots easier than the South on Thursday, with 21 of the top 26 scores on the North.)
Woods, however, never made a significant move up the leader board. Though he played steady golf through eight holes, with two birdies and six pars, his normally reliable putter let him down. His putts on Nos. 13, 18, and 5 hit the cup but did not drop. His chip from the fringe on No. 6 also lipped out.
“I just couldn’t get a putt to fall,” he said afterward. “A lot of good putts that lipped out or burned the edges. If those putts go in, it’s five, six under par with not much trouble. But if I just continue hitting good putts, eventually they’ll go in, in boatloads.”
His birdies on his first nine came on par-5s: No. 10, where he reached the green in two and two-putted from 40 feet, and at No. 17, where he hit his drive 30 yards right of the fairway, laid up to 80 yards, hit a sand wedge to 6 feet and made the putt.
When he was battling the cut line on his inward nine, he made birdies on two of the North’s most challenging holes: No. 3, a 241-yard par-3 where he hit a 5-wood and made an 18-footer, and No. 4, a 479-yard, dogleg-left par-4, where he missed the green with his approach shot but chipped in from the fringe.
He conceded that the leaders were far in front of him, but did not rule out pulling into contention. The final two rounds are on the South Course.
Though Woods has won eight times as a professional at Torrey Pines, he has not won the Farmers since 2013. His best comeback here was in 1999, when he made the cut with no room to spare and shot 62-65 on the weekend for a two-stroke victory, his first in this tournament, then known as the Buick Invitational.
“I’m going to have to play a very special weekend to have a chance,” Woods said. “I’m pretty far back, and the South Course, it’s tough. It’s going to have to be over a course of 36 holes to get myself back in this event.”
