Colin Kaepernick and Eric Reid have settled their respective collusion grievances against the NFL.Attorney Mark Geragos, who has represented the two players in the matter, and the NFL each confirmed the confidential agreement in a joint statement Friday afternoon."For the past several months, counsel for Mr. Kaepernick and Mr. Reid have engaged in an ongoing dialogue with representatives of the NFL," Geragos and the NFL said in the statement. "As a result of those discussions, the parties have decided to resolve the pending grievances. The resolution of this matter is subject to a confidentiality agreement so there will be no further comment by any party."Financial terms of the settlements were not disclosed. Yahoo! Sports reported a final hearing on the collusion grievances had been scheduled for this month.The NFL Players Association said in a statement that it is not aware of the details of the settlements but supported the players' decision."We continuously supported Colin and Eric from the start of their protests, participated with their lawyers throughout their legal proceedings and were prepared to participate in the upcoming trial in pursuit of both truth and justice for what believe the NFL and its clubs did to them," the union said in the statement. "We are glad that Eric has earned a job and a new contract and we continue to hope that Colin gets his opportunity as well."Kaepernick, who was the first NFL player to kneel during the national anthem as a means of protesting police brutality and racial inequality, filed his grievance against the NFL in October 2017 under the league's collective bargaining agreement. Reid, Kaepernick's former teammate, filed a similar grievance in May.Opinion: Colin Kaepernick proves to be a winner again in settlement with NFLThe players alleged that NFL owners had colluded to keep them out of the league because of their protests, which sent ripples across the league during the 2016 and 2017 seasons — particularly after President Donald Trump used an expletive at a rally to describe protesting players, and blasted the NFL for allowing the protests in the first place.A decision on the case was initially expected in the first half of 2019, but a settlement looked to be the eventual outcome after a decision handed down August. That’s when Stephen Burbank, the arbitrator who handled the case, denied the NFL’s motion for a summary judgment, a maneuver – if granted – would have dismissed the case. Burbank had much of the evidence in the case at that point, which included numerous depositions. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, NFL Executive Vice President Troy Vincent and Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones were among those deposed in the case.Geragos even attempted to depose Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, USA TODAY Sports reported in June.Kaepernick remains a free agent, while Reid has since returned to the NFL. He joined the Carolina Panthers midway through last season and recently signed a three-year deal with the team worth $22 million."If anything, it proves my point from last year," Reid said of his new contract. "I didn't sign until the (fourth) week and did for almost the league minimum. And this year I signed a more substantial contract. And nothing has changed. I'm still the same player."Contributing: A.J. PerezContact Tom Schad at tschad@usatoday.com or on Twitter @Tom_Schad. 