A preview of the NFC divisional-round matchup between the Dallas Cowboys and Los Angeles RamsWhen: Saturday, Jan. 12, 8:15 p.m. ETWhere: Los Angeles Memorial ColiseumChannel: FoxLine: Rams by 7Injuries: The Cowboys have issues, none appearing insurmountable. G Xavier Su'a-Filo and DL David Irving missed the wild-card round with ankle injuries. The loss of WR Allen Hurns hurt emotionally, but Dallas should be fine giving his snaps to rookie Michael Gallup. Keep an eye on Rams LT Andrew Whitworth, who left the regular-season finale after banging his knee. Of course, the main question will be the status of all-pro Los Angeles RB Todd Gurley (knee), who sat out Weeks 16 and 17. All indications are that he'll be ready, though C.J. Anderson's resurgence should allow Gurley to take breathers.THREE THINGS TO KNOW1. Return of the back: As much as the NFL has come to be defined by the pass, these clubs' best offensive players are their tailbacks. Gurley led the league with 21 TDs, and is a Swiss Army knife who's effective running the ball, catching it or pass blocking for QB Jared Goff. And, yes, he's now got relief available after Anderson rushed for 299 yards in his two starts. On the other side, Ezekiel Elliott just won his second rushing title with 1,434 yards, has led the NFL in yards per game on the ground in all three of his seasons and chewed up Seattle for 137 more and a touchdown in the wild-card round. Elliott should have much easier sledding against a shaky L.A. run defense. Gurley and Anderson will be facing a Dallas bunch that just shut down the Seahawks' No. 1-ranked ground game, allowing just 73 yards.2. Donald vs. Cowboys blocking: Dallas' offensive line has been the team's primary strength for years, but 2018 was a little rough. RG Zack Martin still made the all-pro team, even though repeated knee setbacks meant he wasn't his typical dominant self. The bigger problems on the interior have been the loss of all-pro C Travis Frederick to Guillan Barre Syndrome while rookie Connor Williams and Su'a-Filo have often struggled to hold down the fort at left guard. Rams wrecking ball Aaron Donald is almost certainly headed to his second defensive MVP award after recording a league-best 20½ sacks, most ever by an interior lineman. He'll likely be more than a handful for the Cowboys, especially given Dak Prescott was sacked 56 times in the regular season, most among NFC quarterbacks.3. Young guns: Finally, a nod to Prescott and Goff. Prescott was solid against the Seahawks, making just enough plays to notch his first career postseason win — which is exactly what Goff is hoping to do Saturday night. Prescott will probably have to do even more against the Rams considering No. 1 WR Amari Cooper faces a tough assignment against CB Aqib Talib. Prescott may have to try and use the aggressiveness of Donald and Ndamukong Suh against them and exploit running lanes given the way those linemen look to get upfield quickly. On the other side, Goff could quickly find the game on his right arm if Gurley struggles physically and/or has a hard time cracking the Dallas defensive wall. The Cowboys are also quite effective against the pass, rangy LBs Jaylon Smith and Leighton Vander Esch being potentially quite disruptive against some of Los Angeles' crossing routes. But Goff might have an advantage numbers-wise with Gurley, a pair of 1,200-yard receivers (Brandin Cooks and Robert Woods) and X-factor Josh Reynolds.***Follow Nate Davis on Twitter @ByNateDavis 