Johnny Manziel has been kicked out of the Canadian Football League.The Montreal Alouettes announced Wednesday that they have been instructed by the league to terminate Manziel's contract because he "contravened the agreement which made him eligible to play in the league." “We are disappointed by this turn of events," Alouettes general manager Kavis Reed said in a statement released by the team. "Johnny was provided a great deal of support by our organization, in collaboration with the CFL, but he has been unable to abide by the terms of his agreement. We worked with the league and presented alternatives to Johnny, who was unwilling to proceed."Manziel and his agent did not immediately respond to requests for comment from USA TODAY Sports, but the quarterback tweeted later Wednesday to say farewell to his team. He said he was looking forward to "exploring new options within the United States."A Heisman Trophy winner and former first-round draft pick in the NFL, Manziel signed a contract with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the CFL last year after receiving approval from commissioner Randy Ambrosie. Ambrosie said at the time that Manziel's status with the league would be dependent upon a series of "extensive and exacting" conditions.NFL: Cornerback Adam 'Pacman' Jones in jail after arrest at an Indiana casinoANTONIO BROWN: Trade 'interest has grown' for Steelers WR, according to GM Kevin ColbertThe CFL had declined to make public those conditions, citing Canadian privacy laws, but Manziel told USA TODAY Sports that they included weekly therapy appointments, mandatory doctor visits and monthly Lithium tests. (Manziel has said he takes Lithium to treat his bipolar disorder.)The Alouettes did not specify in their news release which condition(s) Manziel violated to prompt his release, and CFL spokesperson Olivier Poulin told USA TODAY Sports the league would have no comment on the matter.Manziel, 26, starred at Texas A&M before being drafted No. 22 overall by the Cleveland Browns in 2014. He spent parts of two seasons with the team before being released in 2016 due to a lack of production and his off-field behavior, including a misdemeanor assault charge that was later dismissed.Manziel spent the next two years out of football before exploring a return to the NFL or CFL. He said he stopped drinking, was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and committed to focusing on his own mental health."That’s the scary thing about my mental health: If I don’t continuously take care of it and make it the biggest priority in my life, I’m going to struggle," Manziel told USA TODAY Sports. "That’s hard to say. You’re making mental health a priority over your job? Well, there is no job without my mental health. There is no life and there is no family for me without my head."After beginning his CFL career with the Tiger-Cats, Manziel was traded to the Alouettes midway through last season. He appeared in eight games in Montreal, throwing for 1,290 yards and five touchdowns with seven interceptions.Contributing: Lorenzo ReyesContact Tom Schad at tschad@usatoday.com or on Twitter @Tom_Schad.If you love talking football, we have the perfect spot for you. Join our new Facebook Group, The Ruling Off the Field, to engage in friendly debate and conversation with fellow football fans and our NFL insiders.