When did your bracket get busted? Was it Thursday afternoon, or did you make it into the evening? Was it when Murray State beat Marquette or when Liberty beat Mississippi State?Gregg Nigl’s bracket is doing O.K. In fact, 48 games in, it’s still perfect.Yeah, he had Oregon. Yeah, he had Central Florida. Yeah, he even had the University of California, Irvine.Nigl, a 40-year-old neuropsychologist from Columbus, Ohio, entered his picks in an online game at NCAA.com, which reported that as the round of 16 begins, he has the only remaining perfect bracket.And not just in that pool. NCAA.com also checked the brackets at Yahoo, ESPN and other sites, tens of millions of brackets in all. Nigl’s bracket is the last perfect one, 48 for 48. The site has tracked brackets for four years, and this is the furthest anyone has gone without a mistake.Last season, helped by the upset by the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, of top-seeded Virginia, no one made it past 28 games. Yahoo said that in 2014 someone won the first 36 games. But 48 is uncharted territory.The N.C.A.A. reported that 75 percent of brackets were busted one game in after No. 10 Minnesota beat No. 7 Louisville. By the end of Day 1, only 0.25 percent were still alive. After Day 2, 15 perfect brackets remained. Two, including Nigl’s, were perfect after Day 3. But when Texas Tech beat Buffalo on Sunday, only Nigl remained.So by what basketball acumen did Nigl make his stunning series of picks? “I’m a huge Big Ten fan,” he told NCAA.com. “I know those teams pretty well. Obviously I watch North Carolina and Duke. I’ve seen Virginia play.“But a lot of those other teams, I’ve never seen them play this year. So it’s really listening to people on the news, bracketology, reading some stuff.“And obviously,” he acknowledged, “just luck.”He also revealed the secret behind his astonishing pick of No. 13 U.C. Irvine to upset No. 4 Kansas State: “Last summer my family went to California, and my friend works for U.C. Irvine, and we stayed with them.”Nigl has been helped by a favorite-laden tournament so far. It is only the second time that the top 12 seeds were all among the final 16.Looking ahead, Nigl has gone with all eight higher seeds in the next round. His Final Four is three No. 1 seeds, plus No. 2 Kentucky. And in the final he has Gonzaga beating Kentucky.How is he feeling about his picks now that P.J. Washington of Kentucky is day to day? “Without Washington, I’m not feeling so good.”If you pick all 63 games at random, your odds of getting them all are nine quintillion to one. Those are the odds that Nigl is bucking for the dream scenario of a perfect bracket. He’s 15 picks away.