The N.B.A. will formally review the Cleveland Cavaliers’ recent signing and near-immediate release of the restricted free agent Patrick McCaw for possible salary cap circumvention, according to a person with knowledge of the league’s stance.The investigation was requested by the Golden State Warriors, who had held McCaw’s rights, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.In such cases, officials from the Cavaliers and the Warriors, as well as McCaw’s representatives, are typically interviewed before the league office rules whether Cleveland will face punishment.Signing a player to a nonguaranteed offer sheet is technically not against league rules, nor is waiving him shortly thereafter. But because McCaw lasted only a week in Cleveland before the Cavaliers released him, some around the league have suggested that the move was designed more to help McCaw extricate himself from the Warriors than because of any true interest in the player on Cleveland’s part.The Cavaliers, though, have expressed interest in re-signing McCaw to a cheaper contract if he clears waivers, according to reports.Teams and players are forbidden from making “unauthorized agreements” based on deals that are “expressed or implied, oral or written” or include “promises, undertakings, representations, commitments, inducements, assurances of intent, or understandings of any kind” with respect to a player contract. N.B.A. rules allow for a wide array of penalties in circumvention matters, which at the most extreme can include fines as high as $3 million to $6 million or the loss of draft picks.A contract impasse with the Warriors kept McCaw on the sidelines this season until Dec. 28, when he signed a two-year, $6 million contract with the Cavaliers that was not guaranteed.The Warriors declined to match the offer because retaining McCaw beyond Monday’s contract guarantee date would have resulted in a luxury-tax hit of roughly $11 million. The Cavaliers, though, played McCaw in only three games before releasing him Sunday — right before the league’s annual deadline that would have made McCaw’s $3 million salary guaranteed.The short stint with the Cavaliers netted McCaw, 23, just $323,529. But it sets him up to become an unrestricted free agent if he clears waivers Wednesday at 5 p.m., which Golden State has apparently argued was Cleveland’s intention all along.The Warriors and the Cavaliers declined to comment Tuesday. McCaw’s agent, Bill Duffy, also declined to comment.McCaw was a member of Golden State’s past two championship teams but missed the entire 2017 playoffs after a nasty fall in a late March game at Sacramento, which inflicted a serious bone bruise on his back.Selected No. 38 over all out of Nevada-Las Vegas in the 2016 draft, McCaw turned down a two-year, $5.2 million offer from the Warriors before this season began in which the second season was not guaranteed.