CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Some of the most memorable scenes from the N.B.A.’s 68th All-Star Game played out away from the ball, both on and adjacent to the bench of the squad captained by LeBron James.Two very deep 3-pointers from Damian Lillard sparked a comeback from 20 points down that had some of the game’s biggest names bounding farther onto the floor in the celebration than the rules would ever allow in a game that counts.And in that same corner of Spectrum Center, another spectacle percolated: Anthony Davis, the disgruntled New Orleans Pelicans superstar, spending the entire second half as a rather forlorn spectator.Those close enough to see it simply couldn’t miss the contrast.Davis tested his freshly tweaked left shoulder in warm-ups, registered 5 points in five minutes and then opted for safety — and what passed for solitude — while a raucous rally unfolded around him.Led by Lillard and the All-Star M.V.P. Kevin Durant, Team LeBron climbed out of that huge hole to record a 178-164 victory over the team captained by Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yet it was a muted end to the league’s annual party weekend for the player whose future has generated more noise than anyone or anything in basketball since September. That’s when Davis hired the Klutch Sports agent Rich Paul — who is also James’s agent and one of the superstar’s closest friends — to precipitate a seemingly ceaseless stream of chatter about Davis winding up alongside James on the Los Angeles Lakers.That might still happen. Even though the league’s annual trade deadline has passed — and even with Davis revealing in a wild interview session Saturday that he is more open to being dealt to the Boston Celtics than had been previously described — no one is prepared to suggest that the Lakers are out of this trade chase.The firmest and smartest declaration to be made at this juncture is that Davis’s reverse layup and swished 3-pointer from the left wing Sunday night should be the last two shots he takes for the rest of the season.It is time for the Pelicans, league officials and Davis’s camp to collectively decide that the wisest move for all parties is to shelve The Brow for New Orleans’ 23 remaining games.Davis has every right, like countless All-Stars before him, to request a trade. The sport’s best have anointed James their muscle-flexing role model and are taking greater control of their futures than ever before. Why shouldn’t they if they have the juice?Once that happens, though, Davis’s team should be able to protect the franchise’s interests above anything else. New Orleans has not been granted that right.It emerged Jan. 28 that Davis, through Paul, informed the Pelicans that he would not be signing the five-year, $240 million contract extension they were planning to offer July 1, and that he wanted to be traded instead. New Orleans spent the ensuing 10 days before the trade deadline fielding offers for Davis — mostly from the overzealous Lakers — but did so knowing all along that the pool of worthy offers would be wider if they waited until June.When the deadline predictably passed on Feb. 7 with no deal, New Orleans was ordered by the N.B.A. to play Davis for the rest of the season — even though a precedent had already been set to give the team full control in similar cases involving Houston’s Carmelo Anthony and Memphis’ Chandler Parsons. Davis has played in four games since, routinely taking the proverbial air out of the Pelicans when he’s been on the court and, in his most recent appearance, injuring his shoulder.The Pelicans don’t want Davis in the lineup because of the gloom his ongoing presence spawns, but also to try to avoid a serious injury that could adversely affect his trade value. The N.B.A.’s position is that they differentiate between true game-changers like Davis and mortal players. It is my position that they absolutely should not.Two of the league’s main justifications in this case, after all, hold that the Pelicans would be willfully hurting the ticket-buying public by holding Davis out — and that the potential benefit New Orleans could realize in terms of improving its draft lottery odds in May violates “league rules governing competitive integrity.” Both ring increasingly hollow.The toxic atmosphere at New Orleans home games — where some customers were spotted last week wearing paper bags over their heads in a scene straight out of the depressing New Orleans ’Aints days of yesteryear — is suddenly such that playing Davis is also an affront to Pelicans fans. They know their face of the franchise no longer wants to be there.Rival teams, meanwhile, can whine all they want about the Pelicans supposedly trying to improve their draft pick in June by sitting Davis now. The truth is any team in New Orleans’ position, resigned to trading Davis and getting as much as possible in return, would want to put him in bubble wrap as quickly as possible.Davis made it clear Sunday night after his quiet cameo that he still wants to play out the season. As much as N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver wants the same, Silver conceded in an interview Sunday with ESPN Radio that the awkward dance resulting from Davis’s trade demand had indeed “become a distraction.”“It’s a very unhealthy situation for the team and, frankly, for Anthony as well,” Silver said.Call that the polite description. The TNT analysts Charles Barkley and Shaquille O’Neal, both of whom navigated their own complicated trade sagas as players, were openly critical of Davis and Paul throughout their All-Star duty.“I think they probably should have done it this summer and done it a little bit more quietly,” O’Neal said in an off-set interview. “Because now Anthony Davis is in a bad position. As a player, you never want the fans to think you don’t care.”Even after Davis hired Paul, I expected a scenario closer to what Shaq outlined. I thought Davis would play the season out to his fullest, inform the Pelicans he would pass on the extension and thus force them to trade him without ever explicitly requesting a trade. That approach seemingly would have meshed better with Davis’s reserved personality. The path he chose instead has made the previously beloved Davis an unlikely villain.That, too, shall pass with time. Paul George, Jimmy Butler and Kawhi Leonard are fellow elite talents who have found themselves labeled similarly over the past 18 months. After Davis is ultimately traded in July, it will eventually be someone else who becomes the N.B.A.’s villain.But July is a ways off. Although there’s no way to gain real distance from the Davis distraction until a trade materializes, Pelicans officials believe it can be tangibly diminished by sending him away for the rest of the season — especially with two of New Orleans’ first four games after the All-Star break coming against LeBron’s Lakers.There were strong signals in Charlotte that the Pelicans — with Danny Ferry now serving as their acting general manager in the wake of Friday’s firing of Dell Demps — intend to re-engage the N.B.A. this week in hopes of convincing league officials to rethink their stance about forcing them to play Davis.The N.B.A. Players Association would presumably get involved if New Orleans is successful, but I’d advise the Pelicans to hold firm. Take any fine that comes. The team has played better, scrappier ball without Davis anyway — and heaven forbid he suffers a serious injury in the regular season’s dog days.As opposed to a mere “dumpster fire,” to borrow New Orleans Coach Alvin Gentry’s term, that would leave both Davis and the Pelicans far worse off than forlorn. That would be the sports version of catastrophic.