Li Li Leung, a vice president of the N.B.A., was named president and chief executive of U.S.A. Gymnastics on Tuesday, taking the helm of a federation in chaos in the wake of a sexual-abuse scandal.Leung, 45, has worked at the N.B.A. since 2015, and was most recently its vice president for global partnerships. She said she had actively sought the gymnastics position out of a “personal calling,” having participated in the sport from the age of 7 and having represented the United States at the Junior Pan-Am Games and the University of Michigan in the N.C.A.A. Championships.“It breaks my heart to see the state that the sport is in today, and that is why I stepped forward,” Leung said on a telephone conference call for which reporters were required to submit questions beforehand. “I believe I can create positive change in the organization and the sport and give gymnasts what they do actually deserve.”Leung said her priorities were for U.S.A. Gymnastics to reach a “fair and equitable” resolution of lawsuits filed by victims of sexual abuse committed by Lawrence G. Nassar, a former team doctor; embarking on a listening tour and speaking with victims face to face instead of through lawyers; and creating an athlete-driven federation “where safety is central to everything we do.”U.S.A. Gymnastics has been under fire for more than two years or ever since it was revealed that Nassar had sexually abused hundreds of gymnasts over decades, and that the federation had ignored warnings that might have stopped his abuse sooner. The fallout from the scandal has led to a revolving door of top executives.Steve Penny, who had led U.S.A. Gymnastics since 2005, was forced out in 2017. He faces charges of tampering with evidence in the Nassar case.Penny’s replacement, Kerry Perry, was forced to resign in September after being criticized for her handling of the abuse case.Mary Bono, a former member of the House of Representatives, was named interim chief executive for five days in October. But she left after complaints about her lobbying for a law firm that had advised U.S.A. Gymnastics during the period when the organization delayed revealing reports about Nassar. She also faced criticism for posting an anti-Nike image on Twitter after the company signed a new contract with Colin Kaepernick, the former N.F.L. quarterback who has protested racial injustice and police brutality by kneeling during the national anthem.The United States Olympic Committee moved in November to remove U.S.A. Gymnastics as the national governing body for the sport, and the federation filed for bankruptcy in December. There have been calls in Congress for an investigation of the organization.Nassar is serving what amounts to a life sentence for his crimes. He was accused of abusing many of the top American gymnasts of recent years, including Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas and Simone Biles.Leung was appointed president and chief executive of U.S.A. Gymnastics by its board; its chairwoman, Kathryn Carson, called her “perfectly suited’’ to lead the organization.However, John Manly, a lawyer for more than 100 women who were abused by Nassar, harshly criticized the hiring of Leung, saying it would “change nothing.” None of the Nassar survivors were consulted, Manly said in a statement.He said Leung’s marketing career mirrored that of some of her predecessors and was “exactly the wrong background” to foster a climate to ensure that athletes are being protected. Instead, Manly said, Leung appeared to be “the right pick” to protect the secrets of Olympic and gymnastics officials.