The All-Star Anthony Davis shook the N.B.A. out of its sleepy run-up to the league’s annual trade deadline on Monday by formally requesting a trade away from the New Orleans Pelicans.Rich Paul, Davis’s agent, confirmed Monday via text message that he had personally notified Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps that Davis wants to be moved, in conjunction with Paul informing them that Davis would not sign an estimated $240 million contract extension that New Orleans planned to offer in July at the first allowable moment.The Pelicans responded with a forceful statement in which they implored the league to monitor the situation for potential tampering violations and declared that its roster moves would not be “dictated by those outside of our organization.”Statement from the New Orleans Pelicans regarding Anthony Davis: https://t.co/6GRRcpZMt5 pic.twitter.com/TrrkOpU2ABIt has been widely assumed in league circles that the Pelicans would be forced to trade Davis if he signaled he was unwilling to sign a contract extension, or if he took the step of formally requesting a trade, rather than face the prospect of losing the 6-foot-10 Davis, one of the league’s best players, without compensation.Yet it is unclear if New Orleans will accommodate Davis’s demand quickly or let the season’s most closely watched trade drama drag beyond the Feb. 7 trade deadline. Many rival executives expect the Pelicans to go the latter route, since they may receive stronger trade offers starting in mid-May, once the order is set for June’s N.B.A. draft.“They haven’t said much,” Paul said of whether New Orleans officials had revealed their thinking. “But we wanted to do the right thing to let them know by the deadline so they could do what’s best for the organization going forward.”Paul also said he had not yet given New Orleans a preferred trade destination for Davis. But Davis realistically will have a huge say in where he lands by virtue of his ability to become a free agent in July 2020; any team looking to acquire him this year would be unlikely to surrender meaningful trade assets for a player it could not be certain of re-signing.Several hours after news of Davis’s trade request became public, New Orleans issued a terse statement which said: “Relative to specific talks of a trade, we will do this on our timeline — one that makes sense for our team.” The team added: “We have also requested the league to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction.”The last sentence could be interpreted as a reference to Paul’s longtime relationship with his star client — LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers — since the Lakers have been considered the league’s most ardent suitor for Davis for months.Davis also faces possible league discipline because the N.B.A. typically fines players when they, or their representatives, publicly request a trade.“We commenced an investigation this morning upon reading the reports regarding Anthony Davis,” the N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said Monday. “That process is ongoing.”Teams such as the Knicks and Davis’s hometown Chicago Bulls are among the many clubs expected to join the Lakers in pursuing a trade for Davis over the days leading to the 3 p.m. trade deadline on Feb. 7. Yet it might behoove New Orleans to wait until closer to the draft to get serious about dealing its franchise player.That is because the Boston Celtics, regarded for some time as the Lakers’ foremost challenger in the long-anticipated trade sweepstakes for Davis, are ineligible to acquire Davis via trade while the All-Star guard Kyrie Irving is on Boston’s roster. League rules preclude one team from having two players on the designated rookie scale contract extensions possessed by both Davis and Irving.With a record of 22-28 in a season marred by numerous injuries, New Orleans had slipped to 13th in the Western Conference entering Monday’s play and looked increasingly unlikely to make a playoff run. The Pelicans, though, are under no obligation to trade Davis and could decide to wait until after the season, when the Celtics would be able to join the bidding. Irving has the ability to become a free agent on July 1 by declining the $21.3 million player option he holds for next season.Knicks Coach David Fizdale tried to downplay his team’s interest in Davis on Monday. But the Knicks — who were already planning to make a free-agent run in July at the likes of Kevin Durant and Irving — could emerge as a team to watch for Davis if they show a willingness to make trade assets such as the star forward Kristaps Porzingis, their prized rookie Kevin Knox and this June’s likely top-five draft pick part of any discussions.Although Davis has missed the Pelicans’ last four games with a finger injury, Coach Alvin Gentry told reporters Monday that he expects Davis back in the lineup soon. Davis, according to Gentry, plans to play out the season even if New Orleans elects to keep him past next week’s trade deadline.