(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering the push to limit exposure for the suspect in the New Zealand attacks, the results of a Times investigation of President Trump’s long relationship with Germany’s largest bank, and a surprise in the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball field.“But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”With those words, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand said today that she would not say the name of the man accused of carrying out the attacks that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch. She said she wanted to deny him the attention he craves.Ms. Ardern also demanded that online platforms like Facebook do a better job of controlling hateful content. Before the attacks, the gunman published a manifesto to message boards popular with white supremacists, and included a link to a page where live video of the shooting later appeared.Yesterday: The spokesman for the Islamic State ended nearly six months of silence in calling for retaliation over the mosque attacks.The president and the German financial institution have had a long, symbiotic and, at times, troubled relationship. As investigators in New York and Washington scrutinize their deals, we looked into that history.Deutsche Bank gave Mr. Trump more than $2 billion in real estate development loans before he was president, despite pushback from some at the bank. Once he was elected, the lender went into damage-control mode, even telling Wall Street employees not to utter the Trump name.How we know: Deutsche Bank officials have said that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former executives and board members contradict that narrative. Read four takeaways from our investigation.Response: A Deutsche Bank spokeswoman said, “We remain committed to cooperating with authorized investigations.” The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization, a spokeswoman for which declined to comment.Promises to expand access to health insurance and to lower health care costs were critical to the party’s success in taking control of the House.But as they draft the legislation to fulfill those promises, lawmakers are divided, with many centrist Democrats opposing the concept of single payer, now called Medicare for all, that is favored by progressives.Closer look: Advisers for the Democratic primary field represent a more diverse and issue-driven generation.Yesterday: Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democratic candidate, called for ending the Electoral College.The record flooding that has killed at least two people is also a dire economic blow to farmers and ranchers already weighed down by falling incomes, rising bankruptcies and the fallout from federal trade policies.Floodwaters began to ebb in some parts of the Midwest on Monday, but farm groups said recovery could take months or years.Quotable: One man in Nebraska, whose family has farmed for five generations, said, “There’s not many farms left like this, and it’s probably over for us too, now. Financially, how do you recover from something like this?”Explainer: The governors of Nebraska, South Dakota and Wisconsin have declared emergencies, and Iowa’s governor has issued a disaster proclamation. Here’s a look at the science behind the flooding.AIDS experts agree that, medically, the plan that President Trump announced in February to end the H.I.V. epidemic is sound. But the group most at risk includes gay and bisexual black men and transgender women in the Deep South, and finding and educating them about the disease is rarely easy.Regi Stevenson, above, works at a clinic in Jackson, Miss., that sees the challenges every day.Michael Cohen investigation: Federal authorities began scrutinizing President Trump’s former lawyer in 2017, soon after Mr. Trump took office, according to records released today.Boeing chief speaks: In his first substantive public remarks since one of his company’s jets crashed in Ethiopia, Dennis Muilenburg on Monday extended his condolences to the loved ones of the 157 victims.Fourth Canadian official quits: The country’s top public servant has stepped down, accused of improperly intervening in a corporate corruption case. The scandal has besieged the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Attack in the Netherlands: The Dutch police said today that they were still considering terrorism as a motive for a deadly shooting on a tram in the city of Utrecht based partly on a note they discovered.New York schools: Very few black students have been offered admission to the city’s highly selective public high schools, adding pressure on officials to improve integration.Snapshot: Above, meet the “Flintstone House.” The town of Hillsborough, Calif., has sued the owner to force the removal of dinosaur statues and other landscaping. “It is one thing to spot this house when driving by on the freeway,” a lawyer for the town said. “It is a different thing to be a neighbor and see it all day, every day.”C-Span anniversary: Forty years ago today, the network went live with its first broadcast from the House. We spoke with one of C-Span’s two chief executives about its legacy.N.C.A.A. basketball: For the first time since 2006, Connecticut won’t be a No. 1 seed in the women’s tournament. In another surprise, ESPN leaked the bracket hours early on Monday. (Here’s a printable version.) Baylor, Louisville, Mississippi State and Notre Dame will be the top seeds when the tournament starts on Friday.Late-night comedy: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that she had asked President Trump to express his “sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.” Stephen Colbert doubted whether that would happen.What we’re reading: This investigation by Kaiser Health News and Fortune. Christine Spolar, a former editor at Kaiser who is now the international business editor for The Times, writes, “This stunning story is about how the system of electronic health records in the U.S., with $36 billion in government money, has failed us.”Cook: Rigatoni with wilted greens, bacon and a fried egg makes a hearty pasta dinner.Watch: Before the final season of “Game of Thrones,” read our ultimate guide to the series.See: Festering becomes a highly dramatic — and kinetic — art when it’s Isabelle Huppert who’s stewing. See her in the Off Broadway play “The Mother.”Listen: The music struts while the lyrics bristle in “King James,” from Anderson .Paak’s coming album “Ventura,” writes Jon Pareles.Smarter Living: We all have rivals in our work lives. But our closest competitors can be our greatest allies. Research shows that athletes, for instance, enhance their performance when facing a rival. Building a supportive relationship with a competitor could elevate your performance further.Also, we have advice for avoiding the next real estate downturn.New Zealanders have lit candles, piled flowers and stood vigil since two mosques were attacked in Christchurch last week, resulting in the death of at least 50 people.They have also performed the haka.The ceremonial dance originated with the Maori, the country’s indigenous Polynesian inhabitants. Warriors danced to intimidate opponents with grimaces, chanting and aggressive postures. But there are also hakas of welcome and hakas for funerals.The form has been embraced by New Zealanders of all origins, most famously by the national rugby team, the All Blacks. Many schools have haka groups, and a national competition is hosted every two years by one of the country’s iwi, or tribes.A variety of haka forms have been performed for the Christchurch victims. For instance, a biker group, Black Power, used a warlike haka to express solidarity.Others performed one of the most famous hakas, “Ka mate,” a tribute to life in the face of death.Our 52 Places traveler has filed his latest dispatch, from Wyoming and from Huntsville, Ala.That’s it for this briefing. Have a yabba dabba doo time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the Boeing 737 Max.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Greek sandwich (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Hundreds of readers responded when The Times asked parents and college applicants who have enlisted the help of a consultant why they felt the need to do so.