SATURDAY PUZZLE —  Another creative Steinberg Saturday, which at some point may become a trademarked term. Today we have a low-word-count grid whose appearance reminds me of either Gromit or maybe the Were-Rabbit, enough that it could have been one of those diagramless puzzles that we get every few months. I’ve been seeing creatures in a lot of grids lately, so maybe I’m just losing it.As always, Mr. Steinberg’s cluing is unassailable, clever and subtle. Although stacks are more imposing to look at, there is something symphonic about entries that form pyramids like the ones we have today, the way they swell and subside, and I thought there was a high-enough level of difficulty to make solving the puzzle as satisfying as its craftsmanship.So many nice touches in the clues today, for entries like FANBOY, LAWYERS, JAW, DJS, and HI ALL. One of my very favorites was ALIEN and I got a bit stumped by LOBAR, inexcusably, as it’s evergreen crossword fill fodder.8A: This is a great clue that pushed me into an attempt to contort some version of “the Dating Game” into this little spot, simply because I so clearly remembered that “spin” that brought the three contestants into view at the beginning of each segment. That’s a move on a set — here we have a whole set that moves, because it’s a vehicle, the CASH CAB. I loved this show and used to keep a bit of an eye out for the actual cab while trooping around Manhattan — it just seemed like such a fun surprise. Is it an interesting notion to put a game show on the subway? Hm. This is a clip from “Celebrity” CASH CAB but the intro is pretty typical.17A: I had this island confused with Easter Island, or Rapa Nui, which is actually kind of a neighbor in the Pacific Ocean. VANUATU is an independent nation as of 1980, and considered by some to be where bungee jumping began. Despite the usefulness of that U at the end, we don’t see this entry very often.31A: This was so cunning — Mr. Steinberg isn’t referring to a room or ward that you might move to within a hospital, but SOLID FOOD, which you move to after you start to heal up after some awful experience. If this entry made you think of mathematical solids, there was a grid 15 years ago that had this theme.35A: There weren’t many names in the grid today and for some reason this one was easy enough for me, and I’m so-so at history. I thought it might be because of a recent puzzle sighting but HORACE GREELEY was only an entry once before, back in 1984.37A: This is a debut and a term that I was vaguely familiar with — it’s a bit cultish in meaning, although inarguably a terrific 15-letter pick for a crossword. Very generally speaking, it’s an outdoorsy effect that indoorsy people seek out and pay more for in fashion — DISTRESSED DENIM. Denim is as storied and fussed over in fashion as silk and lace, since it’s one of those traditional American epitomes of cool, and if you choose to get specific with it you can fall down a rabbit hole (and land in Japan, apparently, where a whole prefecture is known for denim).52A: They aren’t the same, but your “time machine” has enough letters in common with your TELEPORTING that you could definitely ruin the bottom of your grid for a little while.4D: This clue looked cryptic, and it’s enough in that vein to be unusual — three “T”s in a row, a series of TRUES I guess.7D: If you’re a rosé lover you may have noticed BLUSH WINES in wine stores or restaurants (I am far more used to seeing rosé on a menu these days but “blush” definitely rang a bell). Blush is a comparatively recent creation in the history of wine and apparently was used primarily as a descriptor for White Zinfandel, which was a byproduct of an attempt to create a richer version of standard (red) Zinfandel wine back in the 1970s.21D: I think of New York City as rolling in pugs, but I just learned that they’re not even in our top 10 (perhaps I’ve been lumping them in with Frenchies all this time because of their similarly stertorous respiration style). Anyhow, the pugs I know are sort of like basketballs with legs in stature, so I don’t think of them as TOY DOGS, but that is the group that they show in.When I started constructing, very few grids used left-right symmetry. The only explanation I can think of is tradition — to me, left-right symmetry is just as elegant as rotational symmetry, and it also makes many otherwise-impossible themes doable. Left-right symmetry feels especially underutilized in themelesses, so I decided to try my hand at a 62-worder with a pattern I (unsurprisingly) hadn’t seen before. I started with DISTRESSED DENIM, a lively 15 whose middle letters seemed very friendly for a bottom stack.When constructing, I always tackle the most open sections first, since they tend to have the most constraints. My construction flow thus proceeded from the middle to the bottom to the upper left (where I needed 7-letter entries ending in the unfriendly letters B and U) to the upper right. I hope you enjoy this crunchy Saturday!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here.What did you think?