Knicks Coach David Fizdale pulled at the edge of his graying beard as he dissected his team’s latest blowout loss. Leading a team that is now 10-42, the worst record in the N.B.A., Fizdale has had to search hard for traces of sunshine.As he answered questions from reporters at a recent postgame news conference, the frames of his trademark glasses looked as broken as the franchise itself. The damaged black frames were held together by a glop of glue; Fizdale had cracked them earlier in the season.It is easy to say now, but with 30 games remaining the Knicks seem to have been lost from the start. They began the season with the youngest roster in the N.B.A., with an average age of less than 24.5 years old. Development became the mantra with Fizdale, who in his first season as the Knicks head coach has frequently referred to his players as “kids.” Inexperience, a revolving-door rotation, and the absence of Kristaps Porzingis — the star forward who has been out injured since February 2018 — compounded the losing.Now, after last week’s trade that sent Porzingis to the Dallas Mavericks ended any hope that he might return to save the season, the Knicks could be in danger of finishing with the worst record in franchise history. The low mark was a 17-65 record during the 2014-15 season. They have lost 13 in a row, 25 of the last 27 and a franchise-record 14 consecutive games at home. Not surprisingly, they were 27th in the league in offensive rating and 28th in defensive rating entering Monday night’s games.Of course, Knicks fans have become inured to the losing — this will be the team’s sixth consecutive season without a winning record. Other than the 2012-13 season, when the Knicks reached the Eastern Conference semifinals, it has been nearly two decades since the team advanced beyond the first round of the playoffs.Newcomers like Kevin Knox, Mitchell Robinson and Allonzo Trier may be the future, but injuries and inconsistency have marred the present. Knox, the 6-foot-9 forward chosen ninth over all in last year’s draft, is one of the youngest players in the league, at 19. In December he earned Eastern Conference Rookie of the Month honors, but his 37.1 shooting percentage needs to improve.The Knicks took a gamble on the 7-foot-1 Robinson when they selected him in the second round of June’s draft, 36th over all. He was the only player in last year’s draft who did not play in college, overseas or in the N.B.A.’s developmental league. Instead, Robinson took a year off from organized basketball after high school to get ready for the draft.Trier, a 6-foot-5 guard, went undrafted after three seasons at Arizona, but his early impressive play led to a two-year, $7 million deal with the Knicks.The Knicks’ front office has been lauded for its savvy picks in last year’s draft and its recent acquisition of reclamation projects. That acumen will be tested in June. The Knicks, who own a first-round draft pick, will have the chance to select an impact player with their winning-by-losing approach.The more they lose, the better their chances are of landing Duke’s Zion Williamson or another highly coveted prospect. Still, it is not a slam dunk — even if the Knicks fail to win 20 games this year. Being the worst team in the N.B.A. used to provide a greater advantage in the draft lottery. Because the league changed the rule to deter teams from tanking, the bottom three teams now share the same 14 percent odds of winning the No. 1 pick. Previously, the worst team held a 25 percent chance.“Obviously, you always want to win. Every game we play we’re trying to win,” Fizdale has said.But what if the Knicks actually did start winning, boosted by the three players acquired in the Porzingis trade with Dallas? The Knicks gained the promising guard Dennis Smith Jr., who was a first-round draft pick in 2017, and the expiring contracts of the veterans DeAndre Jordan and Wesley Matthews, plus two future first-round picks. Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke were shipped to the Mavericks.The Knicks’ newcomers knew only a few of the team’s offensive plays before making their debut against Memphis on Sunday, with Smith Jr. and Jordan starting. Both made standout plays early. Smith scored his first basket on a drive into the lane with an up-and-under layup and added another in a fast-break opportunity. Jordan registered a block, followed by an alley-oop dunk off an assist from Smith. All this competent basketball made some Knicks fans nervous, leading to some angst-ridden gallows humor on social media.The Knicks held on for the loss, 96-84.With Smith and Jordan in the starting lineup, the Knicks have continued their season theme of roster roulette. Fizdale has stitched together 57 five-man lineups that have played 10 or more minutes together this season. But of those groups, only five lineups have played 50 or more minutes together.Consider center Enes Kanter, who started 23 games but lost his starting job as the team decided to focus on developing its younger players. He did not go quietly to the end of the bench. “I’ll go out and do my job and help my team win,” he said in late December. “If we’re winning, it’s good. But if we’re losing it’s a problem. If this adjustment is going to get us a win, cool. But if not, there’s a problem.”But lately the most vocal cheer at Madison Square Garden has been, “We want Kanter!” as he sits on the bench. After four consecutive games in which he did not play, Kanter entered the game against Dallas last week, went to his knees and kissed the midcourt Garden logo. He explained later that he wanted to show his love for the fans since it could be one of his final games as a Knick, with the trade deadline looming.In the second quarter against Memphis on Sunday, Fizdale looked down the bench and called for “Dennis,” referring to the newly acquired point guard Dennis Smith Jr. Kanter, however, heard “Enes” and started for the scorer’s table until he was stopped by the assistant coach Keith Smart.“He wanted to run all the way to the scorer’s table, make it a bigger spectacle,” Fizdale said. But the damage, as it is with the Knicks, was already done.