Our guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BLACK COMIX EXPO at the Brooklyn Academy of Music (Feb. 10, 11 a.m.-5 p.m.). Wakanda forever — and some other places, too. While the success of “Black Panther” helped raise public awareness of one superhero of color, that film’s protagonist is far from alone. Presented by the academy and the Black Comics Collective, this second annual convention celebrates the Black Girl Magic movement with a special focus on female writers, artists and scholars. The event will include comics exhibits, a cosplay showcase, a panel discussion on how black women are represented in science fiction and, for those 9 and older, a virtual-reality experience on Afro-feminism. And at noon and 3 p.m. the illustrator Sheeba Maya will also lead a children’s art workshop, recommended for ages 8 and older, on creating and drawing a fantasy character. (All activities are free, first come first served, except the VR.)718-636-4100, bam.orgLUNAR NEW YEAR CELEBRATION at the Queens Botanical Garden (Feb. 9, noon-4 p.m.). Pigs may not have the best reputation in Western culture, but according to the Chinese zodiac, people born under this sign tend to be calm, generous and very focused. Children can learn more about them and the entire set of zodiac animals at this free celebration, which will usher in the Year of the Pig with lion dances, storytelling and a host of crafts. Young visitors can make paper lanterns and cherry blossoms, decorate red envelopes (signifying good luck) and learn how to work with sumi ink from the artist Chemin Hsiao.718-886-3800, queensbotanical.org‘MARY POPPINS’ SING-ALONG at the Schimmel Center (Feb. 10, 4 p.m.). It’s bound to be supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. Yes, the center is showing the original 1964 “Mary Poppins” film adaptation, a huge hit that won five Oscars — including one for best song for “Chim Chim Cher-ee” — and got better reviews than the current “Mary Poppins Returns.” With the help of onscreen lyrics, children can sing along to all the tunes on the soundtrack while enjoying the Banks family’s adventures. Young fans who arrive at 3 p.m. can also take part in preshow games and meet costumed actors portraying Mary Poppins and Bert the chimney sweep.212-346-1715, schimmelcenter.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]MEET & COMPETE at Piers 92 and 94 (Feb. 9). What happens when you gather almost 200 breeds of dogs and cats under one roof? In this case, an enormous lovefest. Once again, this dual event — an opportunity both to meet furry friends and to watch them compete — will inaugurate Westminster Week, which also includes the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. But Saturday will be the big day for young fans: From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., AKC Meet the Breeds will invite children to pet and play with canine and feline pals on display in booths decorated to reflect the breeds’ histories and attributes. (Above, a golden retriever basking in the glow last year.) Attendees can also watch dogs race through an obstacle course in the preliminary rounds of the Masters Agility Championship at Westminster from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. While cats won’t battle in similar contests, they will take part in agility demonstrations — beyond the feats you see at home, that is. akc.org/meetthebreeds‘RED RIDING HOOD: THE MUSICAL’ at the 92nd Street Y (Feb. 9-10, 1 p.m.) and ‘THE TRUE STORY OF LITTLE RED’/‘LA VERDADERA HISTORIA DE CAPERUCITA’ at Teatro SEA (Feb. 9, 11 a.m.). These two versions give the familiar fairy tale some nontraditional twists. In “Red Riding Hood: The Musical,” adapted by Megan Doyle and Jeffrey Sanzel, the courageous Little Red doesn’t just stroll through the forest on her way to her grandmother’s, she dances, too, along with a company of other nimble performers. And her adversary, the wolf, is a dessert hound whose main object of desire is the cake the heroine carries. First performed at the Y in August, this 35-minute production, which features a score by Brian Feinstein, returns with Polly Hilton, author of the book and lyrics, in the lead role. “The True Story of Little Red,” also a musical, imagines the titular character as an intrepid Latina. In this bilingual staging, written by Manuel Antonio Morán and presented by Teatro SEA, the Latino children’s theater company at Clemente Soto Vélez Cultural and Educational Center, Little Red is so fearless that she trades places with the wolf. She can also help your children learn a little Spanish.212-415-5500, 92y.org212-529-1545, teatrosea.orgSUPER PET EXPO at the New Jersey Convention and Exposition Center in Edison, N.J. (Feb. 8, 3-8 p.m.; Feb. 9, 10 a.m.-7 p.m.; Feb. 10, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.). Who knew there were  performance sports for rabbits (hopping and agility)? Or that macaws could ride bicycles and play basketball? Apparently, “super pet” is not an idle term. At this annual pet-care convention and marketplace, young visitors can not only see trained animals perform but also bring their own pets to join in the fun. In addition to rabbit and exotic-bird shows, the entertainment will include performances by the Marvelous Mutts, rescue dogs that catch Frisbees and do other stunts; cat agility demonstrations; and Rizzo’s Wildlife World, which features reptiles. Attendees can also enroll their animals in training workshops, a best-trick competition and a best-dressed-pet contest.888-718-4253, superpetexpo.com