There were balloons at Baylor, streamers at Missouri State and fake smiles at more colleges than anyone cared to count, but one thing was decidedly absent when the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball bracket was released on Monday: suspense.For the second time in three years, a basketball tournament field leaked before it was supposed to be revealed on a selection show created specifically for that purpose. This time it was the bracket for the Division I women’s championship, which was supposed to be revealed at 7 p.m. Eastern on Monday on ESPN. Instead, ESPN’s sister network ESPNU accidentally broadcast it live four hours earlier.Starting at 3 p.m. on ESPNU’s “Bracketology” show, the college basketball analysts Rece Davis, Jay Bilas, Seth Greenberg and Jay Williams were discussing the men’s bracket, which was released Sunday night. While the men’s bracket appeared front-and-center on the broadcast, the women’s bracket was shown in pieces on the side.Eventually the entire bracket was shown, revealing several surprises: Connecticut (31-2), the dominant power in women’s basketball for almost 25 years, will be a No. 2 seed for the first time since 2006, and the Tennessee Lady Vols, who were on the bubble, were included in the tournament as a No. 11 seed, extending their streak to 38 straight N.C.A.A. tournament appearances. But the mistake also scrambled the plans of dozens of colleges who had invited friends and fans to attend elaborate watch parties to see their teams’ names called. At several, those events — robbed of their drama — were simply canceled.In a statement, ESPN acknowledged the error.“In the midst of our preparation, the bracket was mistakenly posted on ESPNU,” the network said in a statement. “We deeply regret the error and extend our apology to the N.C.A.A. and the women’s basketball community.”Printable N.C.A.A. Women’s Tournament BracketBaylor (31-1), Mississippi State (30-2), Louisville (29-3) and Notre Dame (30-3) earned No. 1 seeds in this year’s field. The No. 2 seeds were UConn, Oregon (29-4), Stanford (28-4) and Iowa (26-6).Like many other schools, Rutgers, which hadn’t been to the women’s basketball tournament since 2015, had invited about 200 fans to mingle with the players at a watch party for the selection show. Giant silver balloons spelling out N.C.A.A. hovered over the bleachers at Rutgers Athletic Center. Red, white and black balloons decorated the stands. Two smoke machines stood at the ready for the big moment.The players were lifting weights when they heard that the bracket had been revealed early. The watch party was canceled because, well, there was nothing to watch.“I think it changed everything because we were so excited to have a party,” Rutgers forward Stasha Carey said. “It changed the natural reaction.”ESPN said it would review its processes to prevent such an error in the future. But with the matchups released, it moved up the selection show to 5 p.m. on ESPN2, where it bumped a replay of the program “High Noon.”An N.C.A.A. tournament bracket also was revealed ahead of its scheduled release three years ago. The bracket for the men’s tournament was leaked on Twitter in the middle of the CBS telecast of the selection show. The anonymous leaker has never been publicly identified, and it is not clear if CBS or the N.C.A.A. knows who it is. But the leaker was widely praised by college basketball fans for short-circuiting CBS’s ponderous revealing of the bracket.While 2016’s bracket reveal seemed like a malicious one designed to embarrass CBS and the N.C.A.A., Monday’s leak was an error by one of the N.C.A.A.’s biggest media partners. ESPN pays a reported $36 million annually for the rights to show 24 N.C.A.A. tournament championships, including the women’s college basketball tournament, which it has shown since 2003. That pales in comparison, however, to the almost $800 million CBS and Turner Sports combine to pay each year to show the men’s college basketball tournament.A second bracket leak demonstrates the peril in purposefully delaying news in order to get brackets, graphics and talking points prepared for a manufactured television event. And the N.C.A.A. was not pleased.“We regret the network’s mistake and are working with our partners at ESPN to prevent similar errors in future years,” the N.C.A.A. said in a statement.UConn (31-2), off the top line for the first time in more than a decade, was placed in the Albany Region with Louisville, which won a home game against UConn, 78-69, on Jan. 31.“We did have considerable discussion about UConn, as well as the entire 1-line,” Rhonda Lundin Bennett, the chair of the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball committee, said on ESPN. “We felt that it came down to strength of schedule, strength of conference, as well as how they were playing down the stretch. We really felt that teams that went on to that 1-line were stronger in those categories.”Rutgers, a No. 7 seed, will face 10th-seeded Buffalo on Friday in Storrs, Conn. Since the players had missed celebrating a live announcement, they decided to fake it. Everyone gathered in the bleachers, and the video staff replayed the announcement on the overhead screen. The team cheered, smoke erupted, and a picture was snapped. Then off to study film and practice as if it were any other day.