(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start with Michael Cohen’s testimony in Congress today, updates from President Trump’s meeting with North Korea’s leader, and new hostilities between India and Pakistan.Michael Cohen publicly testified in Congress today that President Trump knew an adviser was communicating with WikiLeaks and that Mr. Trump implicitly instructed Mr. Cohen to lie about a Trump Tower project in Moscow during the 2016 campaign.Calling Mr. Trump “a con man,” “a cheat” and “a racist,” Mr. Cohen said that Mr. Trump knew in advance through a longtime adviser, Roger Stone, that WikiLeaks would publish hacked emails from the campaign of his opponent, Hillary Clinton.Mr. Cohen is now answering questions from the House Oversight and Reform Committee.Read: Mr. Cohen’s prepared remarks and the documents he provided to Congress to support his testimony.Closer look: Today’s hearing will focus in part on how much Mr. Trump knew about hush money payments and the proposed Trump Tower in Moscow. Here’s what we know about the two episodes.Yesterday: Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, denounced Mr. Cohen as a “disgraced felon.” Representative Matt Gaetz, Republican of Florida, threatened to reveal what he said were Mr. Cohen’s extramarital affairs, rejecting assertions that his attack could amount to witness intimidation.President Trump met over dinner today with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, in Hanoi, Vietnam, before the formal start of talks on Thursday over the North’s nuclear weapons program. (Hanoi is 12 hours ahead of Eastern Time.)“I think you will have a tremendous future with your country — a great leader,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Kim. “And I look forward to watching it happen and helping it to happen.” Here are the latest updates.Go deeper: Mr. Trump has signaled that he is willing to shift his administration’s goals from immediate dismantlement of the North’s arsenal to limits on its size and reach. “I don’t want to rush anybody,” he said this past weekend. “As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.”Another angle: In an interview with The Times, the highest-ranking North Korean diplomat to defect in years said Mr. Kim had no intention of relinquishing his nuclear arsenal.The effort to prevent President Trump from diverting funding to a border wall without congressional approval is headed for a vote in the Senate in the coming weeks, after the House passed the measure on Tuesday.Three Republican senators have already declared their backing for the measure, one shy of the number needed for Congress to ratify it. But it remains highly unlikely that there will be enough support to overturn Mr. Trump’s promised veto.The details: Thirteen House Republicans joined the Democrats to block the national emergency declaration. Here’s how every representative voted.Related: House Democrats subpoenaed three cabinet officials on Tuesday, escalating their battle over the administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the southern border.In a decision that could split the United Methodist Church, church officials and lay members from around the world voted on Tuesday to strengthen a ban on same-sex marriage and on gay and lesbian clergy.Some pastors and bishops in the U.S., where Methodists are the second-largest Protestant denomination, are already talking about leaving and possibly creating an alliance for gay-friendly churches.Notable: The vote reflected the growing clout of Methodists from outside the U.S. About 30 percent of the church’s 12 million members are from African nations, which typically have conservative Christian views.Tensions escalated today between the nuclear-armed neighbors after Pakistan’s military said it had shot down two Indian warplanes and captured a pilot. Pakistan had initially said that it held two Indians.India’s government later confirmed that one of its fighter jets had been “lost” as it thwarted an attempt by Pakistan’s air force to strike an unspecified target inside India.Yesterday: Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan promised to retaliate after Indian fighter jets crossed the disputed Kashmir region for the first time in decades to launch an airstrike within Pakistan. India has blamed Pakistan for a suicide attack that killed dozens of soldiers this month.The study of leadership style has blossomed in the past decade. Psychologists, business analysts and organization experts have taken various measures of productivity, performance and well-being. Most findings point to the same conclusion.Bullying bosses (think Bobby Knight, above, the former Indiana University basketball coach) tend to undermine their own teams.Chicago election: The city will have its first black female mayor after two African-American women, Lori Lightfoot and Toni Preckwinkle, won the most votes in a 14-candidate field on Tuesday. A runoff election is set for April.New House race: Mark Harris, the North Carolina Republican whose campaign financed a fraud-tainted voter-turnout effort, said that he would not run in a new election.Second term in Nigeria: Muhammadu Buhari was re-elected as president of Africa’s most populous country, election officials declared today.New Brexit concession: Prime Minister Theresa May has agreed that Parliament should have the chance to delay Britain’s exit from the European Union if it rejects other options.L.I.R.R. collision: Two Long Island Rail Road trains traveling in opposite directions struck a car that had swerved around lowered gates and onto the tracks on Tuesday, killing three people in the car.Snapshot: Above, St. James’s Park in London on Tuesday, where temperatures peaked at 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 Celsius). It was the hottest February day in Britain since record-keeping began in 1910.Late-night comedy: Jimmy Kimmel noted that President Trump had arrived in Vietnam, “reporting for duty only about 50 years late.”What we’re playing: The game of life as an Amazon warehouse worker. Albert Sun, an assistant editor writes, “Games have scores. Amazon workers have a pick rate. Take five minutes to play through this game from ABC Australia and see what it’s like for your entire job to be driven by a single number.”Cook: Make chicken piccata, and rejoice over its butter-rich pan sauce.Experience: We broke down a waltz from the first half of “Liebeslieder Walzer,” George Balanchine’s intimate dance about the complications of the human heart.Go: Month by month, the best way to find travel deals.See: The best of Paris Fashion Week (so far) in pictures.Smarter Living: The most important part of choosing the right perfume or cologne is trying it on. Spray it on a wrist or elbow, where you’re naturally warm, so the fragrance will reveal itself over time. Not sure? Ask for a sample to take home.Also, why we yawn remains a mystery, but one theory is that yawning cools off the brain.This week, Vice President Mike Pence accused Uruguay of being a “bystander” in Venezuela’s crisis, calling on its center-left government to do more to end President Nicolás Maduro’s devastating reign.A reader, Annelise Gasser of Quebec, asked how a small South American nation had acquired such diplomatic significance.Uruguay, which has clean democratic credentials and decent relations with Mr. Maduro, maintains credibility with both Maduro supporters and opponents that makes it a natural intermediary.Uruguay’s soft approach stems from a live-and-let-live attitude, developed over two centuries of coexistence with much bigger neighbors. The country has long led the region in progressive politics, including legalizing marijuana and same-sex marriage.While hard-liners in Miami might threaten military intervention to oust Mr. Maduro, on the laid-back streets of Montevideo, Uruguay’s capital, residents tend to resolve problems over a slow barbecue and the ever-present thermos of caffeine-rich mate (pronounced MAH-tay).That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, James K. Williamson, Aaron Henry and Andrea Kannapell for the break from the news. Anatoly Kurmanaev, our Caracas-based reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the fraudulent House election in North Carolina.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Science fiction author Asimov (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Nicholas Casey, the Andes bureau chief at The Times since January 2016, has been barred from entering Venezuela since October 2016. That has not stopped his reporting.