LEXINGTON, Ky. — Reid Travis needed to play one more year of college basketball.A Stanford senior, Travis had been working out privately last spring in anticipation of the N.B.A. draft. But an invitation to the combine never came. A few teams had him work out, but the message was clear that he would not be among the N.B.A.’s precious 60 draft picks.Six feet 8 inches and solid, but used to playing near the rim, Travis said he was told he needed to add another dimension to his game — “be more versatile, become a better passer, decrease turnovers, become more athletic.” Given that, he suddenly had to decide whether to stay at Stanford as a graduate student or to pursue a graduate degree in basketball somewhere else.[Follow our live coverage of the N.C.A.A. tournament here.]And thus was created a different kind of one-and-done at college basketball’s top finishing school: John Calipari’s Kentucky, the famed lair of uber-talented high-schoolers who play one N.B.A.-mandated season of games before entering the draft.“Granted I’m four, five years older than these guys,” Travis said last month, sitting in a lounge outside the locker room of Kentucky’s practice facility. “But I am here for a year, similar to them.”Travis’s decision was striking because, for more than a decade, Calipari has been the most popular host of raw freshmen rather than seasoned seniors. His modus operandi at Kentucky has been to accept, without apology, the best 17- and 18-year-olds in July, coach them up and send them off to the N.B.A. the following June. Since Calipari arrived in Lexington in 2009, Kentucky has averaged three first-round picks a year, most of them freshmen. The team has also reached four Final Fours and captured a national title.Enter Travis, a two-time All-Pac-12 first-teamer who turned 23 in November. He was injured most of one season at Stanford, and a medical redshirt left him with one more year of eligibility. But before leaving Stanford, he walked at graduation with his class; he majored in Science, Technology and Society, a course of study that attracts many of the tech-minded who arrive in Palo Alto with dreams of staying in Silicon Valley after college.That is why moving to Kentucky also made perfect sense. A highly recruited prospect from Minneapolis five years ago, Travis had one year left and he sought out a school that could help him get to where he wanted to be as a basketball player.“You’re playing 30-something games a season, but you’re in practice almost 200 days,” said Travis, analyzing the problem like an engineer.“So where can I go where I’m playing against a pro every day in practice?” he added. “I felt like this was the best platform, where everyone can potentially be a pro at their position, and that’s who you’re training with at night, that’s who you’re practicing with, that’s who you’re hanging out with, eating with. Everyone has the same mind-set of trying to be a professional.”The jury is still out on whether he has sufficiently improved his draft stock. Two N.B.A. front-office executives, who declined to be named because N.B.A. rules ban public discussion of prospects, delivered mixed reviews. One predicted Travis will not be drafted, and the other argued that thanks to Travis’s time at Kentucky, he had played his way into the low- or mid-second round.Calipari has had Travis confined mostly to the paint. But James Clark, a private coach who worked with Travis last summer, said that Travis had improved his shooting to the point where he could play as a “stretch four” — the valuable kind of power forward who can create more space for his offense by serving as a threat to score away from the rim.“I also think people are seeing how strong he is,” Clark added. “He’s smart with the basketball — he doesn’t have a lot of turnovers.”At Kentucky (27-6), which faces Abilene Christian in the first round of the N.C.A.A. men’s tournament on Thursday in Jacksonville, Fla., Travis emerged as a starter and key force near the basket. Because he is playing fewer minutes on the star-stocked Wildcats, most of his per-game statistics are down from the previous two seasons (although his block total has skyrocketed), but his impact has nonetheless been powerful.Calipari credited Travis with wrestling Grant Williams, the resident bruiser on rival Tennessee, to a draw in Kentucky’s victory over its fellow No. 2 seed last month. As if to prove Calipari’s point, Tennessee won the next meeting between the teams, when Travis was out with a sprained knee. Tennessee also won the rubber match — by 4 points — in the Southeastern Conference tournament, with Travis back on the court but probably not at full strength.For Calipari, the education of Travis is a task at once unusual and familiar.“Here’s a kid that works like this, that needs a little extra stuff to be able to go reach his dreams, and it appealed to me,” Calipari said during an interview in his office.At one point, Calipari referred to Travis as “a good kid,” and then scolded himself for calling Travis a “kid.”The two bonded last fall during the contentious hearings over Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court nomination.“We talked about the Supreme Court stuff that was going on,” said Calipari, a politics junkie. “Haven’t been able to do that in the last eight or nine years.”One night at a team dinner, Calipari told Travis he thought Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who played a prominent role in the hearings, might make a compelling Democratic presidential candidate. Travis agreed: his family and Klobuchar’s are family friends; he went to high school with the senator’s daughter, Abigail Bessler. (Klobuchar entered the presidential race in February.)Travis will spend the next few years trying hard to earn an N.B.A. spot.Calipari is optimistic, because Travis can shoot, create off the dribble and score. “He’s going to be one of those guys in that league who you want in your locker room, you want on your team, that has the toughness to guard anybody,” Calipari said.The process might take time, a lucky break, more improvement, or a combination of all three. Periods of frustration seem likely.It is also easy to see Travis eventually ending up in business school. He aspires to athletic administration; at Stanford, he took the time to get to know the athletic director, Bernard Muir.That is something to think about later. There is a more immediate task for the fifth-year senior who, as of Thursday morning, had won a National Invitation Tournament championship but had yet to play in an N.C.A.A. tournament game.“I’ve been happy with what I came for,” Travis said recently, “and what I really came for is March.”