All of the completed deals leading up to the NBA's Feb. 7 trade deadline are below. For all of the deals, rumors and analysis from deadline day, check out our deadline day tracker.Kings add Harrison Barnes in trade with Mavericks (Feb. 6)► Kings get: Harrison Barnes; Mavericks get: Justin Jackson, Zach Randolph ► Analysis: Mavericks are trying to create salary cap space to go after a quality free agent in the summer, and Jackson is turning into a solid 3-point shooter; the Kings wanted a veteran wing player such as Barnes, who has a player option for 2019-20 and can help the Kings with their playoff push. Wizards trade Otto Porter Jr. to the Bulls (Feb. 6)► Bulls get: Otto Porter Jr.; Wizards get: Jabari Parker, Bobby Portis and a protected 2023 second-round pick► Analysis:The John Wall injury news prompted the Wizards to shed salary, and Porter is owed $51.7 million over the next two seasons.Sixers acquire Harris from Clippers (Feb. 6)► Sixers get: Tobias Harris, Mike Scott, Boban Marjanovic; Clippers get: Landry Shamet, Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala, two first-round picks and two second-round picks► Analysis: Rookie Sixers GM Elton Brand swung for the fences by adding Harris, who immediately gives the Sixers one of the best starting lineups in the NBA.Knicks trade Porzingis to Mavericks (Jan. 31)► Mavericks get: Kristaps Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Trey Burke, Courtney Lee; Knicks get: Dennis Smith Jr., DeAndre Jordan, Wesley Matthews, two first-round picks► Analysis: Knicks get salary cap space for two max players; Mavs get to pair Porzingis with rookie sensation Luka Doncic.Wizards send Markieff Morris to Pelicans► Wizards get: Wesley Johnson; Pelicans get: Markieff Morris.► Analysis: The Wizards are looking for ways to get under the luxury tax line, and this trade helps them do it.Rockets, Kings and Cavs involved in three-way deal► Rockets get: Iman Shumpert from Kings; Nik Stauskas, Wade Baldwin from Cavs; Kings get: Alec Burks from Cavs; Cavaliers get: Brandon Knight, Marquese Chriss and a lottery-protected first-round pick from the Rockets.► Analysis: Rockets added depth and Cavs continue to restock draft assets that they traded during LeBron James 2.0.Bucks agree to trade Thon Maker to Pistons (Feb. 6)► Bucks get: Stanley Johnson; Pistons get: Thon Maker► Analysis: Maker wanted out of Milwaukee, and Johnson just never developed as Detroit had hoped. A do-over for both players.Pistons trade Reggie Bullock to Lakers (Feb. 5)► Lakers get: Reggie Bullock; Pistons get: Sviatoslav Mykhailiuk, second-round pick► Analysis: Lakers get much-needed 3-point shooting.Suns reach deal with Heat (Feb. 6)► Suns get: Tyler Johnson, Wayne Ellington; Heat get: Ryan Anderson► Analysis: Heat reduced its luxury tax bill, and Ellington is hoping the Suns waive him so he can join a contender.Blazers, Cavaliers make deal (Feb. 3)► Blazers get: Rodney Hood; Cavs get: Nik Stauskas, Wade Baldwin, two second-round draft picks.► Analysis: Though Hood spent about a year with the Cavs, a change of teams could be good for him; the Cavs are in the market for trade assets.Thunder, Bulls make low-impact trade (Feb. 1)► Thunder get: Protected 2020 second-round pick; Bulls get: Timothe Luwawu-Cabarrot and cash considerations.► Analysis: The Bulls love their cash considerations when it comes to trades.Follow Jeff Zillgitt on Twitter. 