It’s a perfect fit.As expected, Tiger Woods will make his 2019 debut in the Farmers Insurance Open at his beloved seaside Torrey Pines Golf Course in San Diego. The tournament announced Woods' commitment Wednesday. The tournament begins Jan. 24.Torrey Pines in a favorite stomping ground for Woods, who has started most of his campaigns there dating back to 2006. Woods, who often attended the Andy Williams San Diego Open at Torrey Pines with his father back in his childhood days, has won the Farmers Insurance Open on seven occasions, the most recent coming in 2013.Woods also won the 2008 U.S. Open at Torrey Pines with a broken left leg and severe ligament damage in his left knee. It was his most recent of 14 triumphs in major championships.Woods, who turned 43 last month, is No. 12 in the official world golf rankings. He last played in the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas in December, where he finished 17th in the 18-man field. Before that, he lost The Match in Las Vegas to Phil Mickelson on Thanksgiving weekend.Making his return to the game following spinal fusion surgery in April 2017, Woods’ capped his remarkable 2017-18 wraparound PGA Tour season by winning The Tour Championship in Atlanta, his most recent of 80 Tour titles and his first victory on the PGA Tour since 2013. He had six other top-6 finishes, including a tie for sixth in the British Open and a second in the PGA Championship.Woods played 18 events last season – the most since he played 19 in 2012. He also played in the Ryder Cup, The Match and the Hero World Challenge. In the Bahamas, Woods, who will captain the U.S. squad in the Presidents Cup in December, said he won’t play as much this season.“I played in too many this year, and that was from adding an event because I missed the cut at (the Genesis Open) to qualifying to get into Akron (the World Golf Championships-Bridgestone Invitational),” Woods said. “All those events took a toll.”Woods has not unveiled his 2018-19 schedule. Currently, Woods said he’s committed to playing in five events in addition to the Farmers Insurance Open – the Genesis Open, which is run by and benefits his foundation, and the four major championships.Woods joins a star-studded field that includes defending champion Jason Day, current world No. 1 and reigning FedExCup champion Justin Rose, 2017 Farmers winner Jon Rahm, Xander Schauffele, Rory McIlroy, Tony Finau, Rickie Fowler, Marc Leishman and Jordan Spieth.  