SAN DIEGO — Rickie Fowler makes his 2019 debut Thursday in the Farmers Insurance Open at sun-kissed, seaside Torrey Pines.Deciding to kick off his new year here wasn’t hard — he loves the two courses used for the tournament, the weather is usually spectacular, fine dining is abundant and one of his sponsors is Farmers Insurance.Deciding the rest of his playing schedule wasn’t as easy.With the PGA Tour’s decision to condense the schedule to end the 2018-19 season in August before football ramps up, and with the PGA Championship’s move to May and The Players Championship relocation back to March, filling out the calendar was a frustrating challenge for Fowler and the rest of his colleagues.“This one’s been really hard,” Fowler said. “In years past, you could change the flow, change the schedule, but this year, you really can’t. It’s packed so you really have to zero in on what you have to do to be ready to play your best golf.”Arriving at that preferred setting involves more than just putting a peg in the ground and teeing off. Fowler scratched his head quite a bit this offseason as he sat at a table with his fiancé, Allison Stokke, and business partner/agent, Sam MacNaughton, and started circling weeks on the calendar.With so many marquee events on tap, their own favorite events to consider, charity events to play, sponsor obligations to meet, commercial shoots to do, training to adhere to, equipment testing to take care of and coveted rest and relaxation in need, it was not an easy juggling exercise.For instance, Fowler’s return to the PGA Tour started with a promotional shoot for the tournament Saturday here in America’s Finest City. He also played in Monday’s charity event hosted by Charley Hoffman on the North Course at Torrey. There’s a Tuesday practice round scheduled. And he’ll play in Wednesday’s pro-am.“I’m not complaining. I love what my life is,” Fowler said. “But we still have a tough schedule. I think the biggest misunderstanding is that when we don’t play we’re off and we’re on vacation. Again, I’m not complaining, but we do practice, we do work out, we do have other commitments, and we do need rest time.”Fowler’s ideal break would last two weeks. That’s going to be tougher to achieve this year because ironically, while the new schedule lineup of 46 events in the 2018-19 season is three less than last season, Fowler and many players will play more golf in condensed stretches than ever before. Especially with one marquee event each month starting in March (Players), April (Masters), May (PGA Championship), June (U.S. Open) and July (British Open). And the FedExCup Playoffs — now three events instead of four — own August.“I was looking at the summer schedule from basically post-U.S. Open all the way through to after the FedExCup, and potentially I could play 11 out of 13 weeks, which is a lot of golf and that’s, it’s too much for me,” Rory McIlroy said earlier this month at the Sentry Tournament of Champions.Speaking at the same event, Justin Thomas said “there's five or six or seven events I would love to play and I want to play, but it just doesn't work out in the schedule, which is a bummer and I would hope tournament directors understand that."I think the Wyndham is one of the greatest events that the Tour puts on and it's just so hard, that's one in the past where I would have loved to play along with a lot of other events, just the schedule and the timing doesn't work out.”As for Fowler, he started filling in the calendar by circling the weeks of the four major championships. Then The Players Championship and two World Golf Championships events.Next came his sponsor obligations — this week’s Farmers and the Rocket Mortgage Classic, which moves to Detroit, at the end of June. And next week’s Waste Management Phoenix Open was a given, he said, because he received a tournament exemption as an amateur and loves the course and area. And the event’s hosts, the Thunderbirds, are among his favorite people.Three others were locks — the Honda Classic, which he’s won in the past and is near his Florida home; the Arnold Palmer Invitational the following week and Jack Nicklaus’ Memorial at the end of May.He also loves to play the week before a major, so there’s four more. That’s 17 not counting the FedExCup Playoffs. Fowler also plays 6-8 charity events, most on Mondays. He has roughly 25 days of corporate outings and commercials shoots.And he refuses to skip a day in the gym or on the practice range.“I hate playing three in a row, but this year I’m going to play four in a row,” Fowler said. That stretch begins with the WGC-Mexico Championship and is followed by the Honda Classic, Arnold Palmer Invitational and The Players.“But because I’m home for the Honda, that’s killing two birds with one stone, and I can drive to Arnie’s, drive to the Players, then drive home,” Fowler added. “With a week at home, that’s going to ease that stretch.”Fowler said if he does have a two-week break, he’ll knock up 1-3 commercial shoots and outings at the front end of the break.“That way I can get some time off,” he said. “When you get one week off, you really don’t have a week off. You unpack, pack, you practice, you work out, and the week is gone. There isn’t really much rest.“It’s tough to look at the calendar and know you’ll miss events you love, like Colonial (Charles Schwab Challenge). But the schedule just doesn’t match up. You can’t play everything you want to play.”