The son and godson of former major league ace Roger Clemens were injured when a bouncer at a Houston nightclub “suddenly and violently began attacking” them minutes into the new year, according to a lawsuit obtained by USA TODAY Sports. Kacy Clemens, a first baseman who played for a Toronto Blue Jays’ Class-A affiliate last season, suffered an injury to his right (throwing) elbow and torso. Conner Capel sustained a fractured skull, a concussion and facial injuries, their lawyer, Randall O. Sorrels, told USA TODAY Sports. Sorrels said Clemens' elbow is thought to have only been badly bruised with no ligament or joint damage. Capel will require annual evaluations for the head injuries sustained for at least the next five years. A bouncer, Nicolas Estrada-Johnson, was arrested on suspicion of misidemeanor assault for "unlawfully, intentionally and knowingly" causing injury to Capel "by striking complaint with an object" on Jan. 1, according to a criminal complaint obtained by USA TODAY Sports. Sorrels said that object was a flashlight. Capel, an outfielder, played for the St. Louis Cardinals’ Class- A affiliate in the Florida State League last season and counts Roger Clemens as his godfather, Sorrels said. After the two boys returned to Clemens' residence, Clemens went to the nightclub to survey the scene. "He wasn't going there looking for trouble," Sorrels said. "The bouncers had a pretty poor attitude until one of the patrons said, 'That's the Rocket.' The tone of the staff changed at that point."The lawsuit filed against the Concrete Cowboy – which has four Texas locations and another in Chicago – seeks between $200,000 and $1 million in damages. A message left with a Concrete Cowboy representative was not immediately returned Thursday. The incident took place after midnight on New Year's Eve. “Before making a purchase of any kind, a Concrete Cowboy bouncer told Clemens and Capel to move,” Sorrels wrote in the 10-page filing submitted on Wednesday. “Clemens and Capel complied with the request, but apparently not to the liking of the Concrete Cowboy bouncer. “Without warning or provocation, the bouncer ... suddenly and violently began attacking Capel and Clemens together, in an attempt to throw them out of the bar. Others joined in and physically assaulted Capel and Clemens, causing injuries to both young men.”According to the lawsuit, Clemens and Capel were not intoxicated at the time of the incident. TMZ was the first outlet to report the lawsuit had been filed. 
 