Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.Also, we’re following breaking news about the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, which killed the more than 150 people aboard. Boeing identified the plane as a 737 MAX 8, the same model that crashed in October in Indonesia.1. 47 months.The sentence for Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, struck many as lenient, compared with the 19 to 24 years recommended under sentencing guidelines. Mr. Manafort, above in 2017, had perpetrated a decade-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, but Judge T.S. Ellis said he lived “an otherwise blameless life.”This week, a judge in federal court in Washington will sentence Mr. Manafort on two conspiracy charges, which carry a maximum penalty of five years each. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, will also be sentenced this week.And Michael Cohen, the president’s former fixer and personal lawyer, sued the Trump Organization for refusing to pay him $1.9 million in legal costs. We also obtained six checks from Mr. Trump to Mr. Cohen that show how the president tried to prevent alleged sexual misconduct from going public.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. House Democrats tried to put to rest an uproar over Representative Ilhan Omar’s remarks, seen by some as anti-Semitic, with a bill condemning hate.The scandal overshadowed the passing of a comprehensive reform bill — dismantling voting barriers, limiting money in politics and imposing stricter ethics rules on federal officials. Above, Ms. Omar at a news conference for the reform bill with Speaker Nancy Pelosi.In last week’s will-they-or-won’t-they 2020 developments: John Hickenlooper, a two-time Colorado governor, is running for president. Former Vice President Joe Biden is 95 percent sure he is, too. The leading Democratic candidates have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced progressive ideas. Here’s what that means for moderates.Check our candidate tracker for updates on the crowded presidential field.____3. The southern border is experiencing a “humanitarian catastrophe,” according to Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary.She urged Congress to support the president’s border wall, although it was not clear how that would solve the humanitarian crisis. Her testimony came as the number of migrants crossing the border without authorization reached an 11-year high in February. Above, migrants in Penitas, Tex., turning themselves in to Border Patrol agents in February.And now, new data shows that 245 children have been newly removed from their families since a federal judge ordered the government to halt routine separations.The Senate is poised to overturn the president’s national emergency declaration this week. The only question: how big the Senate margin will be.____4. Happy bullversary!It’s been 10 years since the bull market began. But most aren’t celebrating the more than $30 trillion in wealth generated since then. We wrote about how the psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis continues to weigh heavily. The caution around stocks could last for decades.On the jobs front, the economy produced a mere 20,000 jobs in February. It was the smallest gain in well over a year, but there were encouraging signs in the data as well.Separately, a Chinese official has suggested a trade compromise with the United States that could make a pact easier to reach. But he did not answer a question about whether President Trump and President Xi Jinping might meet in Florida this month to seal a trade deal.____5. In news from around the world: North Korea is adding to its weapons arsenal and nuclear infrastructure, which President Trump publicly acknowledged after longtime warnings from intelligence officials.Satellite imagery taken Friday showed that the Sohae satellite launch site was being rebuilt. North Korea had begun dismantling the site after talks between Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader, and Mr. Trump last summer, but the progress is now in doubt. Above, the two leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, last month.We also wrote about how the Philippines is grappling with the growing presence of the Islamic State in its southern region, where weak policing and dense forests offer a haven for insurgents.____6. The U.S. women’s soccer team sued U.S. Soccer, accusing it of “institutionalized gender discrimination,” just three months before the Women’s World Cup.The pay gap and differences in training, coaching and even medical treatment aren’t limited to soccer. In golf last year, for example, the world’s top-ranked woman earned as much as the 33rd-best man. Above, the team at the 2015 Women’s World Cup in Vancouver.We compiled eight other times in recent memory when women fought for equality in sports, including the ways W.N.B.A. players are speaking out about their own pay gaps. N.B.A. players, in their starting salaries, make about eight times as much as the average W.N.B.A. player.____7. The global health community reached a milestone: A second patient with H.I.V. was reportedly cured of the infection that causes AIDS.The procedure that cured the first man of H.I.V. infection seems to have cured a second patient. Both milestones resulted from bone-marrow transplants given to infected patients. But the transplants were intended to treat cancer in the patients, not H.I.V.Translating the latest success into a practical treatment will take years — if it happens at all. Other recently revealed advances are more likely to affect the immediate course of the AIDS epidemic, including monthly injections of long-acting H.I.V. drugs.____8. There were several #MeToo developments.The singer R. Kelly appeared in his first interview on CBS after being charged with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse. In an interview with Gayle King, that was parodied on “Saturday Night Live,” Mr. Kelly portrayed himself as the victim of a smear campaign fueled by social media.“The face-off between the wrathful Mr. Kelly and the stoic Ms. King was a clash of temperaments,” our TV critic writes. “But it was also a collision of eras: the moment of the reckoning coming face-to-face with decades of impunity.” Above, Mr. Kelly leaving jail in Chicago on Saturday after being detained for missing child support payments.Separately, Mario Batali agreed to give up his stake in all of his restaurants, more than a year after the chef was accused of sexual misconduct. Of all the famous chefs and restaurateurs accused of sexual harassment, Mr. Batali is the first to pay such a price.____9. And now for something completely different: the work songs of cowboy poets.Ranchers and seekers of the “mythic West” travel each year to Elko, Nev., to practice a tradition born of labor and regional identity. Our reporter and photographer traveled to the National Cowboy Poetry Gathering, now in its 35th year, and recorded 10 readings from the poetry event. Above, the poet Deanna McCall in downtown Elko.In the poem “Sweetly Singing,” Amy Hale Auker writes, “Ours is a work song— / a song of doing, with hands and hearts.”____10. Finally, don’t miss our best Weekend Reads.We talked to a swimmer saved by what she lost, and the owners of the world’s last Blockbuster store in Bend, Ore., who have no plans to close. We also have The Times Magazine’s annual music issue and the 25 songs that matter right now, including Beyoncé and Jay-Z’s “Apeshit,” Robyn’s “Honey,” and Bruce Springsteen’s “Born in the U.S.A.”For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these eight new books our editors like (or these famously scathing reviews of classic books from the Times archive), a glance at the latest TV recommendations, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a melodic week, and enjoy that extra hour of sunlight today.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.