Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.Last year The New York Times introduced Past Tense, an initiative to revisit history through a present-day lens. Its projects begin in The Times’s photo archive, affectionately known as the morgue, where more than six million pictures are held.The first project was “California: State of Change,” a portfolio of the state and the mentality it represented during the rapid growth of the 20th century. More recently, picture essays of Fidel Castro, fitness trends and the rise of the New York pizza slice were published.Its latest endeavor: 100 pictures for what would have been the 100th birthday of Jackie Robinson, the first black player in Major League Baseball, who endured racial venom with stoicism and proved a genius on the basepaths in Brooklyn Dodger white. “For sociological impact,” The Times declared in Robinson’s 1972 obituary, he was “perhaps America’s most significant athlete.”The project, “42 at 100,” reacquaints readers with the many dimensions of the Hall of Famer and civil rights icon. There is Robinson the officer in the United States Army, and Robinson the corporate executive who voted for Richard M. Nixon in 1960. We meet him in a family photo, as a boy in Pasadena, Calif. As a four-sport star at U.C.L.A. On a picket line in Cleveland. On his lawn in Stamford, Conn., hosting a jazz benefit for the N.A.A.C.P.“We wanted to show the entirety of Jackie Robinson,” said Brian Gallagher, the deputy editor of Past Tense.The digitization of The Times’s photo archive is continuing, and the Past Tense team searched the morgue by hand for pictures of Robinson. “This was a big opportunity,” said Veronica Chambers, editor of Past Tense. “Being that this happened in Brooklyn, we knew it was something we could find in the Times narrative.”To fill out a comprehensive portrait of Robinson’s life off the baseball field, the team reached outside of its own collection, to the archives of U.C.L.A., Ebony Magazine and The Pittsburgh Courier, a leading black newspaper in the 20th century.A digital slide show and the pictures selected for today’s 24-page broadsheet print section present an opportunity to run photos that appeared in The Times 70 years ago in a new context, at a much larger scale. There are words, too, including personal essays from the former Times sportswriters George Vecsey and Claire Smith (a pioneer in her own right: the first woman elected into the writers’ wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame), and excerpts from the work of the Pulitzer Prize winner Dave Anderson, who died last year (and wrote Robinson’s obituary).There is a scene at the end of the 2013 Robinson biopic, “42,” that takes place after the Dodgers clinched the National League pennant in 1947, the year Robinson broke the color barrier. He picks up a copy of The New York Times. A banner headline reads, “Hail to Those Brooklyn Bums.”This is a historical inaccuracy: The Times was hardly that effusive in writing of Robinson’s major league debut.The news was covered, to be sure. After the Dodgers signed him to their minor league team, the Oct. 24, 1945, headline read: “Montreal Signs Negro Shortstop.” After his first minor league game in Jersey City, the headline on April 19, 1946, was: “Montreal Winner as Robinson Stars.” In 1947 The Times also reported that the St. Louis Cardinals players considered striking as long as Robinson was in the lineup against them, and that he received threatening letters to “get out of baseball.”But the restrained tone in those sports pages does not match the way Robinson was exalted in the black press, and the way America celebrates his legacy today.“You can see history taking shape, and we really didn’t deal with it that day,” Jay Schreiber, a 27-year veteran of the sports desk, said of the day Robinson signed his contract. Mr. Schreiber, who retired in 2017 and edited today’s special print section, said journalism works differently today.“Now, we would connect all the dots: Why are you signing him?” Mr. Schreiber said.That’s part of the reason The Times started Past Tense: to tell “the stories of the past, with the wisdom of today,” Ms. Chambers said. “We are showing him in a way The Times might not have shown him in his lifetime. We now know more about what we did, and how we missed.”When the clock strikes midnight, Jackie Robinson’s 100th birthday will end, and Black History Month will begin. Once again, he leads the way.