When Derick Brassard was traded from the Florida Panthers to the Colorado Avalanche on Monday, his transportation logistics were not too tricky. He just headed over to the other team’s locker room. The Panthers and the Avalanche faced off Monday night, and Brassard duly scored a goal for his new team.In other offbeat N.H.L. trade-deadline news, Mikael Granlund was sent from the Minnesota Wild to the Nashville Predators on Monday while his partner was in labor.When you think about it, a trade is a strange thing. Imagine showing up to work tomorrow and finding yourself sent to Albuquerque along with Bob from Accounting for some young coding prospects.Given all the trades in all the sports over the years, it is not surprising that there have been some unusual ones.Guys have been traded for one, two, three, four or even five other players. Players have been traded for just about anything but a bucket of balls. Oh, wait. Scratch that. Tim Fortugno, a minor league pitcher, was sent from the Reno Silver Sox to the Stockton Brewers in 1989 for $2,500 and some baseballs. “I told them to throw in 12 dozen balls and we had a deal,” Jack Patton, the Silver Sox general manager, told The Los Angeles Times.Other legendary baseball swaps: Cy Young in 1890 for a new suit, and Ken Krahenbuhl in 1998 for catfish. Not Catfish Hunter, but 10 pounds of actual catfish.Teams have traded for coaches, including Jon Gruden, Lou Piniella, Doc Rivers and Bill Belichick. They have even traded for announcers: Ernie Harwell cost the Brooklyn Dodgers a player, Cliff Dapper, in 1948.Sometimes a player is traded for a player to be named later. In the case of Harry Chiti of the Indians in 1962, the player to be named later turned out to be Harry Chiti.In international soccer, trades are more unusual, but it’s not uncommon for smaller teams to ask bigger teams to agree to a lucrative friendly game as a part of a transfer deal.Forget three-team trades. There have been four-team trades, including the one in the N.B.A. that sent Dwight Howard to the Los Angeles Lakers in 2012. There has even been a five-team trade, a 13-player blockbuster in 2005 that sent Antoine Walker to the Miami Heat.One of the more memorable trades of recent years never actually happened. During a Mets home game in 2015, word reached the dugout and the many fans with smartphones that Wilmer Flores was being traded. Flores continued to play in the game, and the clued-in fans cheered the player in his “final” game as a Met. Flores was seen with tears in his eyes.Only the deal fell through. Flores remained a Met, and he quickly went from fan favorite to beloved Met hero for the next three years. (He was released in November.)Perhaps the strangest trade of all took place in 1979. The Philadelphia 76ers sent Harvey Catchings and Ralph Simpson to the Nets for Eric Money and Al Skinner.So what’s unusual? No, it’s not that Simpson’s daughter is the singer India Arie.The two teams had played each other in November, with the 76ers winning in double overtime. But the Nets protested the game, arguing that a number of technical fouls had been called improperly. The commissioner agreed and ordered the last part of the game to be replayed. The replay was scheduled for March.But by then the trade had taken place. Now four players were on different teams than when the game began.Sure enough, the final box score credits Money with 23 points for the Nets and 4 for the Sixers. Catchings and Simpson also played for both teams in the game.That’s a story that’s going to be hard to beat. Remember those four players who were traded in the middle of the third quarter?