San Francisco Giants president and CEO Larry Baer was suspended without pay until July 2, MLB commissioner Rob Manfred announced Tuesday.Baer has been on leave since video of a public altercation with his wife surfaced. The footage captured by TMZ showed Baer aggressively pulling something from the hand of his wife, Pam, at a public park in San Francisco. Pam Baer was heard screaming before going to the ground.Baer was ordered to have "no involvement in the operations of the Giants" and is required to undergo an evaluation by an expert to determine "an appropriate treatment and counseling plan," Manfred announced."At my direction, the Department of Investigations conducted an investigation into the March 1, 2019 video-recorded incident involving Larry Baer. I also personally met with Mr. Baer. Based on my review of the results of the investigation, I have concluded that Mr. Baer's conduct was unacceptable under MLB policies and warrants discipline. In determining the appropriate level of discipline, I find that Mr. Baer should be held to a higher standard because as a leader he is expected to be a role model for others in his organization and community. Based on my conversation with Mr. Baer, it is clear that he regrets what transpired and takes responsibility for his conduct."MLB said the Giants will appoint an interim control person in consultation with the commissioner. But the Giants released their own statement, and indicated Baer would likely report to a new control person."The Board will also make changes to the Club's corporate structure and will designate a new permanent Major League Baseball control person. Upon Mr. Baer's return, he will remain CEO and President," the Giants Board of Directors said in a statement.Baer's leave of absence, which commenced March 4, will be converted to an unpaid suspension."I made a serious mistake that I sincerely regret and I am truly sorry for my actions," Baer said in a statement. "My unacceptable behavior fell well short of what must be demanded of every person, particularly someone in my position and role in the community."--Field Level Media