SEATTLE — The rebuilding Seattle Mariners are off to a surprising start.The lineup is leading the way.Omar Narvaez hit a three-run homer off Rick Porcello in Seattle's seven-run third inning, sending the Mariners to a 10-8 victory over the Boston Red Sox on Sunday.Dee Gordon had two hits and three RBIs as Seattle put together another impressive performance at the plate. The Mariners scored 34 times while taking three of four from the defending World Series champions in their first series at home."Right now we've got really good confidence, and we know what we can do," Narvaez said. "Everybody's basically enjoying the game. Laughing, putting a smile on our face."Jay Bruce also connected for Seattle, and Mitch Haniger had two hits and two RBIs. The Mariners have 15 homers, hitting at least one in every game in their 5-1 start."I knew we'd hit some homers," Seattle manager Scott Servais said. "It seems like the ball is carrying here, but those balls are hit. Not too many cheap ones getting out of here."Porcello (0-1) allowed nine runs, four earned, and six hits in 2 2/3 innings. The 2016 AL Cy Young Award winner struck out three and walked four.Starters Porcello, Chris Sale, Nathan Eovaldi and Eduardo Rodriguez combined to give up 22 earned runs on 27 hits in the four games against Seattle."If you told me coming into the series that it was going to be this way I'd say, 'No chance,'" Red Sox manager Alex Cora said. "But it's baseball. Those guys are going to be OK throughout the season. We know that."The Red Sox almost came back in the ninth. Cory Gearrin came in to pitch for Seattle and walked the bases loaded with one out. Gearrin was then replaced by Chasen Bradford, who walked pinch hitter Blake Swihart to force in a run before retiring Christian Vazquez and Jackie Bradley Jr. to end the game.Narvaez's drive to right put Seattle ahead to stay. Haniger capped the big inning with a two-run double.Mariners starter Wade LeBlanc (1-0) allowed six runs, four earned, and seven hits in 5 1/3 innings.J.D. Martinez hit an RBI single in Boston's three-run first, and then belted a three-run drive in the fourth for his 1,000th career hit.TRAINER'S ROOMRed Sox: 2B Dustin Pedroia (left knee) played in an extended spring training game. Cora said Pedroia would play in another on Tuesday before beginning a rehab assignment at Single-A Greenville. ... OF Andrew Benintendi was out of the starting lineup after fouling a ball off his right knee on Saturday. He walked as a pinch hitter in the ninth.Mariners: Closer Hunter Strickland, who was placed on the 10-day injured list Saturday with a right lat strain, will likely be out a couple of months, Servais said.CLOSING COMMITTEEWith Strickland out, the Mariners are expecting to use different pitchers at the end of games depending on the situation. Bradford picked up his first career save. The right-hander became the third pitcher to record a save for the Mariners this season.UP NEXTRed Sox: LHP David Price will make his first start of the season as Boston opens a four-game series at Oakland on Monday.Mariners: RHP Felix Hernandez opens his season in the first of a two-game series at home against the Angels on Monday. This is the first season since 2008 that Hernandez did not start on opening day for Seattle.