Josh Bailey scored twice 1 minute 23 seconds apart in the third period, stopping a 12-game drought, and the Islanders won, 4-2, at Philadelphia on Saturday.Nick Leddy and Brock Nelson also scored for the Islanders, who had dropped two in a row and three of four over all. Robin Lehner made 22 saves.The Islanders moved to a point behind idle Washington for first place in the Metropolitan Division. They remain tied with Pittsburgh, which later beat Dallas, 3-2. The Islanders have played one less game than the Penguins.Nelson’s first-period baseball swing, knocking the puck out of midair, was the Islanders’ first goal in 134:27 after two embarrassing shutout losses that had Coach Barry Trotz considering lineup changes.“I thought about it and it was actually quite difficult,” Trotz said. “We talked about it as a coaching staff because there are some guys I wasn’t really happy with.”He added: “But I felt it was important to go back with this group and sort of challenge them a little bit. I liked the response. I liked the response about stepping up to the plate here and getting it done.”Robert Hagg and Shayne Gostisbehere scored for Philadelphia, and Carter Hart made 36 saves.The Flyers had won two of three, including a 3-1 victory at Chicago on Thursday night. This loss is a big blow to their fleeting chances of rallying to the second wild card in the Eastern Conference.“Obviously, we weren’t in a position, never mind to have a losing streak, but to lose more than this one game,” Flyers Coach Scott Gordon said. “That’s where we’re at right now.”Gostisbehere tied it at 2-2 with a power-play goal 6:16 into the third, but the Islanders went ahead to stay on Bailey’s scoring flurry.First, Nelson won a board battle to get the puck to Bailey, who sprinted down the right wing and snapped a shot past Hart for his 15th goal of the season. On his next shift, Bailey took a pass from Leo Komorov and one-timed a shot past Hart to make it 4-2 at 17:26.Hagg opened the scoring in the first period with a wacky goal. His shot was a good six feet wide of the net, but it took a strange carom off the end boards, hit Islanders forward Casey Cizakas in the leg, and then off the back of Lehner’s glove and into the net.But the Islanders rebounded quickly. After Nelson’s goal, Leddy capped a dominating shift by the Islanders with his fourth goal of the season on a slap shot from the high slot 10:58 into the second.RANGERS 2, MAPLE LEAFS 1 Ryan Strome scored 1:48 into overtime, ending the Rangers’ five-game losing streak with a victory at Toronto.Pavel Buchnevich also scored for the Rangers, and Alexandar Georgiev finished with 44 saves. Zach Hyman scored for the Maple Leafs, and Frederik Andersen stopped 26 shots.On the winning goal, Andersen had made an amazing save on Boo Nieves on a two-on-one, but the puck went to Strome, who stuffed it in from the left side of the net to give the Rangers their second win in 13 games (2-6-5). Toronto lost for the sixth time in nine games (3-4-2).Buchnevich made it 1-0 with 19 seconds gone in the third period. He beat Hyman to the puck in a mass of bodies in front of Andersen for his 18th goal of the season.The Maple Leafs tied it at 8:33 after a rush by Morgan Rielly opened up the Rangers’ defense and John Tavares fed Hyman for his 19th.Tavares was hurt later in the period, sent flying by a crosscheck from Rangers defenseman Marc Staal. Tavares skated off slowly, hunched in pain after being helped to his feet, and Staal was penalized. Tavares returned for the power play, almost scoring.DEVILS 2, COYOTES 1 Blake Coleman and Pavel Zacha scored in the fifth and sixth rounds of the shootout and the host Devils gave Arizona its fourth straight loss.Drew Stafford scored in regulation for the Devils, and MacKenzie Blackwood made 23 saves in regulation and stopped five of six chances in the shootout.Oliver Ekman-Larsson scored for the Coyotes, and Darcy Kuemper had 31 saves.Coleman scored the first shootout goal with a forehand, but Conor Garland forced another round scoring on a backhander. Zacha beat Kuemper between the pads and Richard Panik failed to respond for the Coyotes.Arizona had two great chances to win on a power play in overtime, with Derek Stepan and Clayton Keller both hitting goal posts.