Gee, you wake up one morning and the entire political world is transformed.I know some of you were very sad about the way the Mueller report let Donald Trump off the hook. Even if you secretly doubted that he was actually well-organized enough to run an international conspiracy, it made you depressed to see him looking so happy.But then he took off on the worst victory lap since — well, do you remember that baseball player who celebrated his grand slam home run by leaping in the air and fracturing a leg?“We’re not talking about health care right now, but I will,” Trump told reporters on Wednesday.He also vowed to make the Republicans “the party of health care.” Great strategy! The Republicans have no health care plan or even a plan about how to get one. Trying to get rid of Obamacare had been their most humiliating failure in the two years they controlled the White House and Congress. Last thing in the world they want to bring up.“I understand health care now especially very well,” Trump bragged. This was at a press conference with the wife of the opposition leader in Venezuela. All over the country, his party members wished he had stuck to Caracas.And who knew Trump was so well briefed? Remember back in the day, when our then-new president complained that “nobody knew that health care could be so complicated”? Now he’s apparently got it worked out. Those famous late-night cramming sessions sure did the trick.Republicans in Congress began desperately leaking the news that they had tried to talk their alleged leader out of the idea. The Democrats were almost swooning with joy. Really, Trump could not have made them happier if he’d announced that he planned to unveil a new tax cut called Help for The Greedy Rich.Nancy Pelosi, who’s been struggling to quash battles between left and center in her House caucus, got the best birthday present conceivable. Every wing of her party ran on making Obamacare better. Now all they’ll have to do is promise to make it Not Gone.Obamacare does need work. The original plan was a mooshed-up compromise with the insurance companies, and Trump has been sabotaging it whenever possible. But still, it provides coverage for about 20 million Americans. And there is no evidence that, even in red states, average people want to see it go away. In the last election, voters in Utah, Idaho and Nebraska supported expanding their states’ programs.Pelosi was already pushing a bill that would put a cap on how much premiums could cost Obamacare customers, as well as protecting popular coverage like prescription drugs and maternity care.It’ll never become law while Trump is in office. But now, when the Republicans try to argue against the bill, they’ll be reminded approximately every three seconds that their party’s alternative is to dump the whole program in favor of a new plan that is yet to be named. Or written. Or discussed. Or given a hashtag.So what got into the president?Maybe somebody was trying to divert him from another attack on John McCain. (“Donald, nobody can defame a dead war hero like you do. But why don’t you take a break and suggest something new.”)Maybe Trump was bored. The right intended to follow the happy news about the Mueller report with a demand for new investigations into Bill and Hillary Clinton. For most of America, that’s about as exciting a prospect as bringing back “Duck Dynasty.”Even while everybody from Mike Pence to the janitor was allegedly urging the president to stay away from health care at all costs, there were plenty of people to egg him on.Some Republican state attorneys general have been in court trying to get Obamacare overturned. This week the Justice Department announced its support, and it will be filing a brief, presumably backing the argument that the founding fathers never would have wanted to protect people with pre-existing conditions.Mick Mulvaney, the powerful head of the Office of Management and Budget, seems to have been the leader of the let’s-pile-on crowd. He’s always been an administration star. Who can forget the time he told reporters the government couldn’t afford to support Meals on Wheels? Or the time he counted the same $2 trillion twice? Or the time he told a reporter that the budget the administration submitted to Congress was not necessarily “indicative of what our proposals are”?Mulvaney is also currently serving as the acting White House chief of staff, following the departure of John (I’m-Holding-My-Head-in-My-Hands-Again) Kelly. He could have several more jobs by the time we get to Easter. People are beginning to notice that the acting secretary of defense is a former top official at Boeing.So here we are. Polls are showing that the public is apparently still on the collusion bandwagon. Trump sits proudly at the head of an administration that includes very few people who could be trusted running your local 7Eleven. He’s just proposed a plan approximately as popular as banning summer vacation. And we haven’t even gotten to April. Didn’t somebody say something about the cruelest month?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.