WASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.Despite the praise the legislation has received, it faces dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Only two Republicans who backed the Toomey-Manchin legislation — Mr. Toomey and Senator Susan Collins of Maine — are still serving in the chamber. And Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Republican, said on Tuesday that the Senate would not take up the bills.