How do I explain my compulsion to finish The New York Times Sunday Magazine puzzle every week?Perhaps it’s the realization that so many experiences in life do not have “exact” answers. Some blanks just can’t be filled in. As we age, we recognize we know less than we imagined about our world, and ourselves. Solving crossword puzzles, in any way we can, satisfies that need we have to be certain about things. We hunger for the truth and finding the correct answer to a clue gives it to us, if only for a moment.I never do the Monday to Saturday puzzles. I feel guilty enough, as I already devote so much time to the Sunday crossword. But I’m compelled to finish on Sunday.Crossword puzzles made their way into my life when I was a single parent of a rambunctious little boy, commuting to a full-time job in New York City. A friend confessed she did the puzzle religiously every weekend — in ink! As soon as she heard the thump of the folded-up paper hitting her front door, she jumped to her feet to fetch it and immediately dug in. My first reaction was: Who has time for that? But like everyone with an uncertain future and a child to raise on my own, I craved the satisfaction of the crossword’s “one clue, one answer” routine.A word lover, an English major and a writer, I could not hold out forever. Little by little, I started doing the puzzles more frequently, any time I could find a moment when someone else — child, boss, needy friend — wasn’t demanding my attention.Visiting my parents allowed me to enjoy the puzzles in nearly perfect quiet. My mother would take her grandson on an excursion down the road to the Queens Botanical Garden and Dad and I would hole up in the den, blinds closed. He’d watch his sports shows; I’d disappear in the back pages of the magazine. It was bliss for us both, utter peace and camaraderie. The silence was broken only by my requests for help with the sports questions. He was more than happy to oblige and show off his encyclopedic knowledge of the games, the scores and the players.“Dad, who was the highest scoring defenseman in N.H.L. history?”“That was Bobby Orr. You asked me that last week.” He’d turn his attention back to his bowling show.“Wait. One more. How do you spell that Dominican family name?”“Huh?” he’d ask.“It’s four letters. Brothers in baseball — ”“A-L-O-U.”“Yes, that fits! Thanks.”My voracious reading and the vocabulary I accumulated helped me, as did my fluency in French and smattering of Spanish phrases. In the beginning, I’d be stumped most often not only by sports but also by more esoteric clues. Even today, I couldn’t draw you a map of Africa or any of the continents, and I certainly couldn’t tell you anything about the geography. Clues like “Aardvark genus” or “Direction of Nile” or “Philodendron phyllum” had me waiting for my father to get out of his seat to get more coffee. At that point, I’d make a dive for the dictionary. I should be ashamed to say that after cheating on a few key words, I nevertheless marked “100 percent” on the puzzle when I completed it.In terms of clues, I’m stumped most often these days not by geography, anatomy or foreign words, as much as by pop culture references to hip-hop or rap culture, MTV songs, sitcom characters, the antics of celebrities and newfangled gadgets. Someone at The New York Times has evidently figured out that their next audience is in the wings and has to have clues tailored to their experiences. A viewer like me, who watches only movies on TCM and occasional animal shows on National Geographic, with no little grandchildren running underfoot, is lost. My husband’s no help.Do I reach for the dictionary? Heavens no! I grab my iPhone and Google the heck out of it. I’m not totally adrift when it comes to technology. The funny thing is I never consider my fact-seeking behavior to be cheating. As long as I solve the puzzle in any way I can, and in ink, I am satisfied.Over the years, certain things have changed, others not. Now more than ever, I reach for the puzzle, sit up on a corner of the couch and lay it out on my knees. I quickly dissuade one of our cats from stretching out over the puzzle, instead patting an area next to me for her siesta.My father is with us in spirit only; my husband picks up the slack. Ensconced in his leather armchair with his book, he’s thrilled to have a little peace and quiet, a respite from my usual chattering. He knows I’ll call on him for sports- or history-related questions. Most important, he knows he can count on an hour (or two or three) in which to relax. Once in a while, he makes a crack about my crossword puzzle-solving time being “sacred,” but he respects the fact that I have to finish the puzzle before starting my day. He knows an obsession when he sees one.I do my puzzle every Saturday morning as soon as the paper arrives on our doorstep. It’s understood that I am not moving until I am good and finished. There are times when I am extremely frustrated, mumbling and grumbling out loud about how long it’s taking me to finish the darned thing.“Maybe they’re leaving letters out again? Or substituting one letter for another? Geez! The whole day’s going by — ”“Honey, why don’t you put it down for a while or bring it with you to the restaurant?”“No way.”When I finally manage to solve the puzzle and circle the 100 percent, I take a deep breath, stand and work out the cricks in my back.“Done,” I declare. “Whew, that was a hard one, but so clever.”“Great,” says my husband, laying his book aside and standing up. “Can we go out now? The sun is shining and I thought we could try that new restaurant in Mt. Kisco.”“O.K., but just let me read you a few of these puns.”“Go ahead,” he says with a slightly resigned air. “I know it makes you happy.”Janet Garber is a writer and native New Yorker. Her debut novel, “Dream Job, Wacky Adventures of an H.R. Manager,” is a satire of an out-of-control New York City medical center.Illustration by Fabio Consoli.