[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York moved a giant step toward legalized sports betting on Monday, as the State Gaming Commission offered initial approval of a 33-page set of proposed rules that would allow such wagers at four upstate casinos.The unanimous decision of the seven-person commission comes less than a year after a Supreme Court ruling cleared the way for such operations outside of Nevada, which once had a monopoly on betting parlors under a 1992 law.Since then, other states have legalized sports betting, including New Jersey, whose lawmakers had long clamored for it and passed it last year. The state now allows such betting in casinos and at racetracks, and also allows people within the state’s borders to place wagers online.The New York State Legislature has yet to pass a law that could replicate New Jersey’s expansive offerings, so on Monday, the commission took the initiative by signing off on a “Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” designed to allow hometown fans to have another reason to bemoan the Knicks, Jets, Giants or Mets.But hold your horses. While the gaming commission has certainly matriculated the ball down the field, nothing will happen in time for you to legally bet on the Super Bowl this weekend in New York. Here is a quick explanation of where things lie.Well, you can if you go to New Jersey, but in New York the gaming commission’s decision will not become official until after a 60-day public comment period, after which the commission still needs to review those comments and then formally adopt the rule — presuming there is no objections. That means that there will be no betting in New York casinos until late March, at the absolute earliest (maybe just in time for baseball’s opening day or the Final Four). The casinos will also need a “sports pool license” to be issued by the Gaming Commission.That said, preparations are underway for sports betting at all four casinos, with plans being drawn up for lounges, big screens and tote boards listing all manner of point spreads and money lines.“Our customers want this form of gaming,” said Steven A. Greenberg, a spokesman for the del Lago Casino in Tyre, N.Y. “And we’re excited to be able to offer it to them.”Uh, no. Not even close. The closest of the four casinos is Resorts World Catskills in Monticello, N.Y.; sports betting will also be allowed at the Rivers Casino in Schenectady; the del Lago Casino, in Tyre, a small town southeast of Rochester; and Tioga Downs, west of Binghamton.The reason the four are so far-flung — as least from a New York City perspective — is rooted in the 2013 law that authorized the expansion of casinos in New York, part of a plan pushed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo as a way to enliven long-sluggish upstate communities and their economies. That has not happened, as all four have struggled to meet their promises of tax revenue and in some cases, their debt payments.The governor’s embrace of sports betting is an acknowledgment of how it could help draw people to those casinos, as well as an acknowledgment of the competition from other states (see New Jersey).Those ads, for companies like FanDuel and DraftKings, are aimed for New Jersey residents and sports gamblers visiting the state.It is not at all clear if New York will authorize online betting, which is a potentially much bigger moneymaker than the so-called brick-and-mortar operations the Gaming Commission gave its initial approval to on Monday.The Cuomo administration has expressed the opinion that authorizing online bets would require changing the State Constitution. That is a time-consuming process; any such change would require passage by two separate legislatures and approval via a voter referendum. That means 2021, at the very earliest. Needless to say, casinos are not pleased by this interpretation or this timetable.New York sports bettors do have one option that their New Jersey brethren do not: tribal casinos.Betting will likely be available at Turning Stone, the hugely successful operation outside Syracuse, which is owned by the Oneida Indian Nation. Earlier this month, the Oneidas announced a partnership with Caesar’s Entertainment to open betting lounges at Turning Stone and two other smaller casinos nearby in 2019.Pretty much any professional or major collegiate sporting event. Betting on politics and other cultural events — the winner of “The Voice,” for example, or the coming Democratic presidential primary cage-match — will not be allowed.No one under age 21 will be allowed to bet, and the rules provide that casinos can decline any bet over $10,000. Though it seems unlikely that the struggling upstate casinos are likely to turn people away. Sports betting is not the most lucrative game for casinos — slot machines, for example, generate far more profits — but they do offer an amenity to get bettors to come and spend time. As one chief executive, Ryan Eller of Empire Resorts, put it: “Casinos that already offer sports betting have seen an increase in companion play.”Translation: People like to sit around and watch professional sports, particularly if they have money on it. And while they are there, they might throw a few bucks on a table or in a slot machine.Not without online gaming, casino officials say. There is an enormous market for betting on your phone or laptop, and not just with sites affiliated with New Jersey casinos. Offshore sites offer wagers on anything from snooker to Icelandic basketball to American politics (where Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat is considered a very, very long shot to win the 2020 Democratic nomination).Until that is legalized by the Legislature and the voters, however, gamblers will have to go to casinos to place their bets, and casinos are promising to welcome them with open arms. At Turning Stone, for example, officials are already constructing their betting parlor, promising a 48-by-9-foot curved screen visible from three sides, as well as 17 other massive televisions, something the casino promises will “create a ‘wow’ impact.”Now if someone could just fix the Knicks.