STORM LAKE, Iowa — The Republicans in Des Moines and Washington are doing what they can to run away from and run off Representative Steve King, the Republican from my district, for yet more of his outlandish remarks over white supremacy, nationalism and western civilization — remarks that simply echo things he has said many times over the past two decades in my paper, The Storm Lake Times.But the voters along the county blacktops and gravel roads of Northwest Iowa, most of them Republicans, are hanging tough with the congressman, who was recently stripped of his seats on the House Agriculture and Judiciary Committees.A Republican state senator, Randy Feenstra, a professor at Dordt College with solid Christian conservative credentials, has said he will challenge Mr. King in the 2020 primary. Mr. Feenstra said he stands with President Trump but is not as “caustic” as Mr. King and will not embarrass ever-polite Iowans. Other Republicans are pondering primary runs, too, thinking that condemnation at the hands of the party elite may give them a rare opening.Not so fast. Mr. King may be wounded, but he remains popular here.“They can’t change my mind about him,” said Cathy Greenfield, a dog groomer adamantly opposed to abortion who lives with her husband, Larry, a teacher and auto body mechanic, in the village of Fonda, just east of here. “The left has been after him forever. I don’t think he’s a racist. I think he will be successful.”She is not even prepared to consider Mr. Feenstra or anyone else. Ms. Greenfield trusts Steve King, now serving his ninth term.The same goes for Sue Guntren of Storm Lake, who with her husband, Robert, proudly plants a huge red “King” sign every two years in her yard along Lake Avenue, the main drag. “We’re sticking with him,” she said. “I’ve never really heard what he did was that bad.”Erik Mosbo took a break from his Snapper dealership to reflect on his support for Mr. King. “I don’t care what the topic is, you have to be able to have an honest discussion about it,” he said. “King was trying to defend the merits of Western Civilization, not white supremacy. Since only a snippet of his comments were used and the interview wasn’t recorded, the message was twisted around to project an incorrect quote. Reporting events and comments are hard work and the need to be correct is huge.”The congressman has made lots of outrageous remarks over the years. He joked about immigrants being “dirt.” Like Mr. Trump, he broadly describes Latinos as drug runners and criminals. He said he doesn’t expect to meet any gay people in heaven.Most supporters write it off as “Steve being Steve,” or as the media unfairly being on his case. His son banned or ejected reporters, including some from The Des Moines Register, The Storm Lake Times and other publications, from the congressman’s election-night rally, calling them left-wing propagandists.A Storm Lake resident, Carol Huntzicker, a former chairwoman of the Buena Vista County Republican Party, says she still prefers Mr. King. She said she couldn’t believe how many commentators and politicians have accused Mr. King of harboring racial animosity.“I’ve known King, his son and his family for a very long time,” she said. “I know he doesn’t feel the way the media says he does. Sometimes, you can’t trust everything publications say about him.”Ms. Huntzicker harbors no ill will against Mr. Feenstra, but she sees no reason Mr. King shouldn’t continue being the Fourth District’s congressman. She’s seen him at events in every election cycle, and at each visit he’s been calm and a willing listener. She highlighted his appearance at a benefit for the county’s Republican Party chairman, Randy Ericksen, who had a stroke in 2018.“He’s just so kind and cheerful every time I see him,” she said. “And I’ve seen him do great things for people, for people I know.”Mr. Mosbo said: “When Steve had a town-hall meeting at the library in Sioux Rapids he showed us the key fob given to him by a Guatemalan family from Sioux City that Steve and his wife helped. The man has a heart for immigrants, contrary to what many in the media portray him to be.”Mr. King insists he is being attacked for speaking the truth. He blasted Mr. Feenstra for disloyalty. At 69 he sounds very much as if he is running, with or without any committee assignment. Given my little focus group, Mr. Feenstra had better be ready to bring it.None of my friends who voted for Mr. King — 60-something men in Carhartt camo — discuss his views on race. They are afraid that Democrats will go after their guns. They hate taxes. And what they really wonder about is why the ice fishing is so lousy. You would think they will never catch another perch. Randy Feenstra? Never heard of him. Would you vote for Mr. King again? Oh, yeah. Why? Because he tells it like it is and takes on all that politically correct stuff.But there is a Democrat out there, J.D. Scholten, waiting to see how things shake out. A former professional baseball player, he came within just under four percentage points of defeating Mr. King last year in the overwhelmingly Republican Fourth by relentlessly canvassing the district in a used Winnebago. His candidacy may be what is really causing Washington Republicans to rebuke Mr. King.Mr. Scholten thinks he can beat Mr. King next time around, if there is a next time. But from the sounds I’m hearing, Mr. King has not exhausted his appeal.Art Cullen is editor of The Storm Lake Times in Iowa and the author of “Storm Lake: A Chronicle of Change, Resilience, and Hope from a Heartland Newspaper.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.